- JavaScript is a synchronous, blocking, single threaded language.
- To make async programming possible we need the help of Libuv.

We have the V8 engine which executes JavaScript code. It comprises memory heap and call stack.

Libuv will then run the task using native async mechanisms of the operating system and if that is not possible, it will utilize its thread pool to run the task ensuring the main thread is not blocked. 
the main thread of execution always starts in the global scope so the global function is pushed onto the stack and if there is no more code to execute, global function is also popped off from stack.

```js
const fs = require("fs");

fs.readFile(__filename, () => {
  console.log("this is readFile 1");
});
```
Read file is an async operation that is offloaded to libuv, so what happens now is that the Callback function of readFile is handed over to libuv, JavaScript then simply pops off the readFile method from the call stack because its job is done.
In the background the Libuv starts to read the file contents on a separate thread.
When callBack of readFIle method will be ready, due to Event Loop it will be pushed onto call stack and will be executed.

### Phases

All phases are part of libuv, but the two microtasks however are not part of libuv.

- First you should know that all user written synchronous JavaScript code takes priority over asynchronous code that the runtime would like to execute. Which means only after the call stack is empty the event Loop comes into picture.

- Before event loop starts its work, in queues we already have callbacks because js engine goes onto code line by line and put it into call stack and only after call stack the async callbacks go to queue.

If all callbacks are executed and there is no more code to process the event Loop exits.
Note: The functions(setTimeout, nextTick) get popped off from call stack,but their callbacks will go to queues.

In case of microtasks Event Loop first will execute cbs in nextTick que and then will go to promise queue. If event loop inside of promise queue it will continue execute promise cbs till finish the whole cbs even if this time new nextTick cbs have been entered in nextTick queue.
```js
process.nextTick(() => {
  console.log(1);
});

Promise.resolve().then(() => {
  console.log(2);
  process.nextTick(() => {
    console.log(4);
  });
});
Promise.resolve().then(() => {
  console.log(3);
});

Promise.resolve().then(() => {
  console.log(5);
});

Promise.resolve().then(() => {
  console.log(6);
  process.nextTick(() => {
    console.log(7);
  });
});
```
The resolve and then methods go to the stack as well, then they will popped off from stack but callback of then will go to the microtask.

the view of stack
```js
// 1
global()

// 2
resolve()
global()

//3
then(cb)
resolve()
global()

// 4
resolve()
global()

// 5
global()
```
### Timer

Callbacks in the micro task queues are executed before callbacks in the timer queue.
After every callback execution in the timer queue the event Loop goes back and checks the micro task queues if there is any callback. After ensuring that micro task queues are empty Event loop goes back to the timer queue.

## Idle prepare

Idle, Prepare: The “idle.ignore” phase is not a standard phase of the event loop in Node.js. It means it’s Used internally only. The “idle” phase is a period of time during which the event loop has nothing to do and can be used to perform background tasks, such as running garbage collection or checking for low-priority events.

“idle.ignore” is not an official phase of the event loop, it is a way to ignore the idle phase, meaning that it will not use the time of the idle phase to perform background tasks.

An example of using idle.ignore can be:
```js

const { idle } = require('idle-gc');
 
idle.ignore();
```

Here we are using the idle-gc package, which allows you to ignore the idle phase. This can be useful in situations where you want to ensure that the event loop is always busy and that background tasks are not performed.

It’s worth mentioning that, in general, the use of idle.ignore is not recommended, as it could cause performance issues, we should only use this if we have a very specific use case that requires it.


### IO queue or poll phase

When running setTimeout with a delay of 0 milliseconds along with an io async method, the order of execution can never be guaranteed.

```js
const fs = require("fs");

setTimeout(() => console.log("this is setTimeout 1"), 0);

fs.readFile(__filename, () => {
  console.log("this is readFile 1");
});

```

It's important to know that callBack of readFile will appear in IO queue when it will finish its work. It means IO events are polled and callback functions are added to the io queue only after the input output operation is complete.

After every callback execution in the IO queue the event Loop goes back and checks the micro task queues if there is any callback. After ensuring that micro task queues are empty Event loop goes back to the IO queue.

When Event Loop proceeds to the IO queue and if this queue does not have any callbacks, Event Loop then proceeds to the IO polling phase and during this phase the read file operation is complete which pushes a callback function into the IO queue.
After this Event Loop proceeds to the check queue.

### Check phase

CallBacks of check queue are executed after microtask queue, timer queue and IO queue.
After every callback execution in the check queue the event Loop goes back and checks the micro task queues if there is any callback. After ensuring that micro task queues are empty Event loop goes back to the check queue.
If Event Loop reach out to IO queue and doesn't find any cbs there, it will go to the check queue.


```js
const fs = require("fs");

fs.readFile(__filename, () => {
  console.log("this is readFile 1");
  setImmediate(() => console.log("this is inner setImmediate inside readFile"));
  process.nextTick(() => console.log("this is inner process.nextTick inside readFile"));
  Promise.resolve().then(() => console.log("this is inner Promise.resolve inside readFile"));
});

process.nextTick(() => console.log("this is process.nextTick 1"));
Promise.resolve().then(() => console.log("this is Promise.resolve 1"));
setTimeout(() => console.log("this is setTimeout 1"), 0);

for (let i = 0; i < 2000000000; i++) {}

```

when running set timeout with 0 millisecond delay along with a setImmediate method the order of execution can never be guaranteed.

```js
setTimeout(() => console.log("this is setTimeout 1"), 0);
setImmediate(() => console.log("this is setImmediate 1"));
```

But of course you can add a time consuming for loop to guarantee the order. Now setTimeout will always execute before setImmediate.
```js
setTimeout(() => console.log("this is setTimeout 1"), 0);
setImmediate(() => console.log("this is setImmediate 1"));
// Uncomment below to guarantee order
for (let i = 0; i < 1000000000; i++) {}
```

### Close queue

Here we can have callbacks about close event listeners.

```js
const fs = require("fs");

const readableStream = fs.createReadStream(__filename);
readableStream.close();

readableStream.on("close", () => {
  console.log("this is from readableStream close event callback");
});
setImmediate(() => console.log("this is setImmediate 1"));
setTimeout(() => console.log("this is setTimeout 1"), 0);
Promise.resolve().then(() => console.log("this is Promise.resolve 1"));
process.nextTick(() => console.log("this is process.nextTick 1"));
```

## Process.nextTick promises

However, when you attempt to utilize it with ES modules, you will observe a notable distinction.
If you understand how ES modules work and what they provide, then it is highly probable that you will comprehend the reason.

ES modules operate asynchronously, and when you compare the usage of require with imports, you will observe a significant disparity in their execution order. The key point to note is that ES modules function asynchronously, meaning that when the program begins, it does not initiate solely as a program in the conventional CommonJS fashion.

This difference in execution order is the reason behind the observed variations in microtask sequencing.

```js
setImmediate(() => {
   process.nextTick(()=>{
      console.log('nextTick');
   });
  
   Promise.resolve().then(()=>{
      console.log('promise resolve');
   });
  
   console.log('console.log');
});
```

If you execute the same functions within a single macrotask, you will observe that the sequence remains as expected.

The program’s execution order is contingent upon the position of the pointer, which queue it resides in, and the task phase it is currently in. Consequently, the program’s execution order can be subject to change, which accounts for the observed differences.

In CommonJS we can load ES modules. Note that it returns a promise.
Now, I assume you understand that when it comes to ES modules, the pointer is positioned at the top of the Promise queue. This is the reason why, during program startup, promise queues are given higher priority than nextTick.

### Summary

The event Loop is a c program that orchestrates or coordinates the execution of synchronous and asynchronous code in node.js.

The release of Node.js version 11 brings forth noteworthy changes, enabling nextTick callbacks and microtasks to execute between every individual setTimeout, setImmediate and other macrotasks.
This update harmonizes the behaviour of Node.js with that of web browsers, enhancing the compatibility and reusability of JavaScript code across both environments.

