## JavaScript

- is single threaded and have only one process
- is blocking which is because of its synchronous nature, no matter how long a previous process takes the subsequent process won't kick off until the former is completed.

## LibUv

libUv is a cross-platform open source Library written in C language. It handles asynchronous non-blocking operations in node.js using thread pool and event loop.

## Thread Pool

- conversation between Main thread and Thread pool

- Main thread

hi libUv, I need to read file contents, but that is a time consuming task I don't want to block further code from being executed during this time can I offload this task to you.

- Pool thread
Sure main thread. Unlike you, who is single threaded, I have a pool of threads that I can use to run some of these
time-consuming tasks. When the task is done the file contents are retrieved and the associated callback functions can be run.

So node.js uses threads to offload time-consuming tasks and ensure the main thread is not blocked for a long time.
Every method in node.js that has the sync suffix always runs on the main thread and is blocking.

libUv's threadPool has by default 4 threads, if we have 4 async function each of them will be executed in separate thread at the same time, but if we have 5th async function, however it has to wait for a thread to be free and after that the 5th function can be executed in one of threads.

```js
const crypto = require("crypto");
const https = require("https");

process.env.UV_THREADPOOL_SIZE = 16;

const start = Date.now();

const MAX_CALLS = 12;

for (let i = 0; i < MAX_CALLS; i++) {
  crypto.pbkdf2("a", "b", 100000, 512, "sha512", () => {
    console.log(`Hash: ${i + 1}`, Date.now() - start);
  });
}
```

SO by increasing the thread pool size we are able to improve the total time taken to run multiple calls of an asynchronous method like pvk.

A few methods like fs.readFile and crypto.pbkdf2 run on a separate thread in libUv's thread pool. They do run synchronously in their own thread but as far as the main thread is concerned, it appears as if the method is running asynchronously.

When we have only one readFile functionality it takes only one thread of libUv threadPool which takes one core of our Computer.
Note: Number of threads should equal number of CPU cors. 
When we have 8 cores and change the thread pull size to 8 and number of readFile functionality is equal to 8 each call takes one thread which in turn takes one core. 
But when there are 8 cores, 16 threads and 16 readFile functionality, we have one thread per call then the operating system has to juggle 16 threads across eight cores.
And because of this 16 threads now have to share eight cores.

So increasing the thread pull size can help with performance but that is limited by the number of available CPU cores.
Threat pool helps execute some of the async methods in node.js but not the whole.

So for that we have Network I/O operations.

## Network I/O

https.request method does not seem to use the thread pool
https.request does not seem to be affected by the number of CPU cores either.
https.request is a network I/O operation and not a CPU bound operation, it does not use the thread pool
LibUV instead delegates the work to the operating system kernel and whenever possible, it will pull the kernel and see  if the request has completed

## Summary

in node.js async methods are handled by libUv.
They are handled in two different ways.
1. Native async mechanism
2. Thread pool

Whenever possible libUv will use native async mechanisms in the operating system so as to avoid blocking the main thread
Relying on Native async mechanisms makes node scalable as the only limitation is the operating system kernel, example of this is Network I/O operations.

If there is no native async support and the task is file IO or CPU intensive, LibUv uses the thread pool to avoid blocking the main thread.
Although the thread pull preserves asynchronicity with respect to node's main thread it can still become a bottleneck if all threads are busy.