## Socket 

WebSockets is a technology that allows for opening an interactive communications session between a user’s browser and a server. With this technology, a user can send messages to a server and receive event-driven responses without requiring long-polling(reference to the http folder).

In comes WebSockets. Web sockets allow a long-held single TCP (transmission control protocol) socket connection to be established between the client and server, allowing for for bi-directional, full duplex, messages to be instantly distributed. This is done with minimal overhead resulting in a low latency connection.

A request to a WebSocket connection is sent to the server from a client (or multiple clients) through a process called the WebSocket handshake, which starts with the client sending a regular HTTP request to the server. Part of this request includes an Upgrade header, which indicates to the server that the the client is trying to make a WebSocket connection. This request is called a WebSocket handshake.

If the server accepts the handshake and supports the protocol, the initial HTTP connection is replaced with a WebSocket connection using the same TCP / IP protocol. And that connection is maintained for each client, allowing data to be pushed in real-time back to the client from the server on demand. Because this connection between the server and client remains open, it eliminates the need for constant polling (i.e. checking) to see if new information has been stored on the backend. Doing so eliminates the need for constant fetch requests to the backend server.

WebSockets don’t require a user to send a request in order for the server to respond. Instead, the server returns any information as it gets it, so the user side just has to listen for that information. Compared to polling, WebSockets have a much lower latency in terms of messages being sent to their clients, due to the open connection. While with long polling, the connection has to be re-established with each request, WebSockets just sends the response as soon as it gets it in real-time.

So to wrap up, here are some key advantages of WebSockets over HTTP long-polling:

Continuous connection between client and server: data can be sent to the client at any time, even without the client requesting it
Full duplex communication: communication can be sent either way at any time during the connection
Very low latency: there is limited HTTP overhead (like headers, cookies, etc.) making the speed at which data transfers happen much faster
