## GitFlow

Instead of a single master branch, this workflow uses two branches to record the history of the project. It is basically based on two main branches with infinite lifetime namely master and develop

- Master Branch : The master branch contains production code and it stores the official release history.
- Develop Branch : The develop branch contains pre-production code and serves as an integration branch for features.

- develop 
Assuming we have a repo setup with a master branch. The first step is to complement the default master with a develop branch. A simple way to do this is for one developer to create an empty develop branch locally and push it to the server. This branch will contain the complete history of the project. Other developers should now clone the central repository and create a tracking branch for develop.

- feature
Each new feature should reside in its own branch, which can be pushed to the central repository for backup/collaboration. But, instead of branching off of master, feature branches use develop as their parent branch. When a feature is complete, it gets merged back into develop. Features should never interact directly with master.

- release 
Once develop has acquired enough features for a release (or a predetermined release date is approaching), you fork a release branch off of develop. Creating this branch starts the next release cycle, so no new features can be added after this point — only bug fixes, documentation generation, and other release-oriented tasks should go in this branch.

Release branches support preparation of a new production release. They allow many minor bug to be fixed and preparation of meta-data for a release. May branch off from develop and must merge into master and develop.

Once the release branch is ready to ship, it gets merged into master and tagged with a version number. In addition, it should be merged back into develop, which may have progressed since the release was initiated. It’s important to merge back into develop because critical updates may have been added to the release branch and they need to be accessible to new features. If your organization stresses code review, this would be an ideal place for a pull request.

Once the release is ready to ship, it will get merged it into master and develop, then the release branch will be deleted.

- Hotfix Branch
Maintenance or “hotfix” branches are used to quickly patch production releases. Hotfix branches are necessary to act immediately upon an undesired status of master. Hotfix branches are a lot like release branches and feature branches except they’re based on master instead of develop. This is the only branch that should fork directly off of master. As soon as the fix is complete, it should be merged into both master and develop (or the current release branch), and master should be tagged with an updated version number.

```js
Overall Flow of GitFlow
A develop branch is created from master
Feature branches are created from develop
When a feature is complete it is merged into the develop branch
A release branch is created from develop
When the release branch is done it is merged into develop and master
If an issue in master is detected a hotfix branch is created from master
Once the hotfix is complete it is merged to both develop and master

```
## GitFlow pros and cons

Perhaps the most obvious benefit of this model is that it allows for parallel development to protect the production code so the main branch remains stable for release while developers work on separate branches.
Moreover, the various types of branches make it easier for developers to organize their work. This strategy contains separate and straightforward branches for specific purposes though for that reason it may become complicated for many use cases. 
However, as more branches are added, they may become difficult to manage as developers merge their changes from the development branch to the main. Developers will first need to create the release branch then make sure any final work is also merged back into the development branch and then that release branch will need to be merged into the main branch.
Indeed, due to GitFlow’s complexity, it could slow down the development process and release cycle. In that sense, GitFlow is not an efficient approach for teams wanting to implement continuous integration and continuous delivery. 
