
## CommonJS modules

CommonJS is the first module system originally built into Node.js. Node.js’ CommonJS implementation respects the CommonJS specification, with the addition of some custom extensions.

Before executing the code written inside a module, Node takes the entire code and encloses it within a function wrapper. The syntax of this function wrapper is:

```js
(function(exports, require, module, __filename, __dirname) {
   // entire module code lives here
});
```

The five parameters — exports, require, module, __filename, __dirname are available inside each module in Node.

```js
const { Module } = require(“module”);
console.log(module.__proto__ == Module.prototype);
console.log(Module);

console.log(module.__proto__ )
// result
// {
//   load: [Function (anonymous)],
//   require: [Function (anonymous)],
//   _compile: [Function (anonymous)]
// }

const arrowFun = ()=>{
    console.log(arguments);
}

console.log(arrowFun());
```
The two main concepts of the CommonJS specification:

- require is a function that allows you to import a module from the local filesystem.
- exports and module.exports are special variables that can be used to export public functionality from the current module. The exports variable is just a reference to the initial value of module.exports.

- In CommonJS, modules are loaded synchronously and processed in the order the JavaScript runtime finds them. This system was born with server-side JavaScript in mind and is not suitable for the client-side. This is why ES Modules were introduced.

```js
// a.js

console.log(45);
const { name } = require("./b.js");
console.log(name);

// b.js

console.log(1);
module.exports = {
  name: "john",
};
console.log(12);
```

- Common.js is a standard that states how a module should be structured and shared.
- Node.js adopted common.js when it started out and is what you will see in code bases.
- To load a module into another file we use the require function.
- When index.js is executed the code in the module is also executed

```js
// add.js
console.log(34)

// index.js
require(".add")
console.log(12)
// 34 12
```

In Common.js
- Each file is treated as a Module.
- Variables, functions, classes are not accessible to other files by default.
- Explicitly tell the module system which parts of your code should be exported via module.exports or exports.
- To import code into a file use the require function


- The module parameter (rather a keyword in a module in Node) refers to the object representing the current module. It contains all the information about current module.
- Exports is a key of the module object, the corresponding value of which is an object. The default value of module.exports object is {} (empty object). 
You can check this by logging the value of module keyword inside any module. Let’s check what is the value of module parameter inside the circle module.

```js
module.k=12;
console.og(module)

// Result
// Module {
//   id: '.',
//   path: '/Users/Satenik_Karapetyan/Documents/LevelAP',
//   exports: { s: 34 },
//   filename: '/Users/Satenik_Karapetyan/Documents/LevelAP/index.js',
//   loaded: false,
//   children: [],
//   paths: [
//     '/Users/Satenik_Karapetyan/Documents/LevelAP/node_modules',
//     '/Users/Satenik_Karapetyan/Documents/node_modules',
//     '/Users/Satenik_Karapetyan/node_modules',
//     '/Users/node_modules',
//     '/node_modules'
//   ],
//   k: 12
// }
```
Notice that there is a console.log(module); statement at the end of the code in the file given above. When you see the output, it will log the module object, which has a key named exports and the value corresponding to this key is {} (an empty object).

- Also when we print (this) inside of module, it will refer to module.exports.

```js
function first() {
  return this;
}

console.log(first()); // refers to global object

const second = () => {
  return this;
};

console.log(second()); // refers to module.exports
```
