# HTTP methods

Selecting transcript lines in this section will navigate to timestamp in the video

- Every request sent over the HTTP protocol includes a method, aka a verb. This method tells the server what type of action we want to perform with the request. There are a limited set of these methods available and some are more used than others. For standard web transactions, we typically only use three. GET, POST, and DELETE. But these are not the only methods available to use. Each of the HTTP methods has it's own request response pair and some require more information than others to work. Let's take a closer look.

## GET

- By far the most frequently used HTTP method is GET. It is also the simplest one. A GET request for a public resource only needs the method and the URL to work. If this resource sits behind a security layer, the request typically also needs an authorization header containing an encrypted username and password pair and may require a cookie containing an authentication token. If a GET request is successful, a 200 OK HTTP status is returned along with the requested data. If it fails, meaning the requested resource does not work, the familiar 404 Not Found status is returned telling you the resource quite literally cannot be found at this address. If the user does not have the correct access authorization, a 405 Not Allowed status is returned and if the resource is blocked by the server, a 403 Forbidden status is returned.
To send data from the client to the server, we have three different methods to perform different types of actions. POST, PUT, and PATCH.

## POST

POST is the most common of these methods, as it is the one useD when you submit a form on a webpage. A POST request asks the server to create a new resource and give it an ID for future retrieval. Because POST requests make changes to the server, they typically need an authorization header. A successful POST request returns a 201 Created HTTP status along with a link to the new resource ID and the response header. If the resource already exists, the server returns a 409 Conflict status and if the resource is sent to a resource that can't create new resources then you get a 404 Not Found HTTP status in return.

## PUT

- PUT is used to update an existing resource by replacing some or all of its contents with the contents of the request. Like POST, PUT typically requires an authorization header. Unlike POST, which just contains the contents, a PUT request contains the ID of a resource and the new content to be added to that resource. If the resource already exists, the existing content is replaced with the contents in the PUT request. If no resource with this ID exists, the server will in some cases allow the new resource to be created with the user defined ID or you'll get an error message. A successful PUT request returns a 200 OK status. If there is no content on the server, a 204 No Content status is returned. If the ID doesn't match an existing resource, a 404 Not Found status is returned. If a PUT request is sent to a resource that can't be updated, a 405 Method Not Allowed status is returned.

## PATCH

- PATCH is used to modify an existing resource. Where PUT updates the resource by replacing content, Patch can carry along instructions on how to modify the existing resource without necessarily replacing data. PATCH also typically requires an authorization header and returns the same status as PUT.

## DELETE

DELETE does exactly what it sounds like. It deletes a specified resource. A DELETE request must contain the ID for the resource and an authorization header. If you try to delete a resource you are not allowed to delete, you'll get a 405 Method Not Allowed status. What actually happens on the server when you send a DELETE request varies from server to server. In some cases you delete a database entry. In other cases, you change the status of a database entry without actually removing content. It all depends on the design of the system you're interacting with. In addition to these content methods, HTTP also has three methods to get information from the server without really touching the content. They are HEAD, which returns just the HEAD section of the response, OPTIONS which returns a description of the communication options for the target resource, and TRACE, which creates a loop back of the request message effectively telling the client where the request ended up.