## Cookies

To get an idea of how headers are used to perform actions by both servers and browsers, let's look at two examples. First up, cookies. As I've explained before, cookies are used to pass states between clients and servers over the stateless HTTP protocol, effectively setting up sessions between the server and client. Let's say I have a website with a login panel and once someone has logged in, I want their browser to remember that and authenticate itself by telling the server who it is and that it's already in a logged in state. This can be done using a cookie. When the user first goes to the site, they are met with a login panel. They put in their username and password and the site lets them in. At this point, the server includes a set cookie response header with a unique token or string of characters in its response and also stores that same string in its own database associated with the current logged in user. The browser receives this cookie and keeps it in its memory.

These cookies are for authentication purposes and also provide other information. all of these cookies are sent along in my request header and these cookies help identify who I am. If I go back to the headers, you can actually see that. If I click on raw headers here. In the request header, here, you'll see under the cookie header, we have all that same information passed on to the server. Now, the next time a request is sent from the browser to the server, the request header includes a cookie header with the same unique tokens. The server receives the request, checks the token in the cookie against its own database and if everything matches, sends back the data as requested. Cookies can be used for everything from keeping people logged in to making sure they land back where they left off to tracking their behavior. Because cookies are often used by advertisers to track users across multiple websites, many companies and the European Union, have made it mandatory for any site that uses cookies to explicitly warn the end user that cookies are being used to track them. That's why you see all these cookie warnings on sites you visit. Now you know it has nothing to do with actual cookies.

