## HTTP

HTTP, the hypertext transfer protocol. Any time you interact with content on the web, you use the HTTP protocol to send requests and receive responses between servers and browsers and the HTTP protocol defines how all this information is formatted and transmitted. HTTP facilitates every transaction we make over the World Wide Web. Click on a link and the browser sends a request to get the data from server. Click on the submit button on a social media post and the browser sends a request to post the data you just typed in to a database on the server. The web is the biggest and most accessible information resource ever made and HTTP is the reason it works so well we rarely consider what's going on behind the scenes. Knowing how HTTP works and how to work with it, gives you the power to make the web work for you.

## What is HTTP?

- HTTP is an acronym for Hypertext Transfer Protocol, literally a protocol used to transfer hypertext. Which begs two questions. What is a protocol and what is hypertext? In this context, a protocol is a system of rules that allow communication of information between different entities, like computers. Hypertext is a somewhat outdated word for text that is displayed on a computer screen that contains hyperlinks to other text. So web documents. So, the hypertext transfer protocol is the set of rules, servers and browsers used to transfer web documents back and forth. Which is why every URL you type into a web browser starts with http. That's a nice definition, but it doesn't tell us much about the nature of HTTP. What it is.

- So let's dig in a bit deeper. One of the core principles of HTTP is that is plain language and human readable. When you see an HTTP request, response or message, you can read it out loud and make sense of it even if you don't necessarily know how the technology works. As an example, all HTTP request methods use simple human language verbs. Get, post, put, delete and so on. You don't need to know anything about computers or computer networks to get what I mean. Another principle is that HTTP is a stateless protocol. That means each individual request sent over the protocol is unique, and no request is connected to another request. To put it in another way, HTTP has no memory of previous requests. Go to a web page with a photo gallery, and it will show you the first picture. Go reload your browser or type in the URL again and you get the first picture again, because HTTP has no memory of you making that first request. This statelessness ensures users don't get trapped in or placed in the middle of sequences of content, but it also means they can't walk their way through sequences because the requests are not connected.

- To fix this, HTTP allows sessions. Stored states shared between the browser and the server. If a visitor is flipping their way through a photo gallery, the browser and server can exchange information about where the visitor is in the sequence by passing information back and forth in the form of cookies. Reload the page, and the browser sends along a cookie to the server saying, "Hey, last time we spoke "we were looking at the third picture, start there."

- This means, while HTTP is stateless, it is not sessionless. That passing of cookies that allows HTTP to preserve sessions is made possible by the extensibility of HTTP. When requests and responses are sent back and forth over HTTP, we can include HTTP headers with additional information. These headers can carry information about everything from what type of client sent the requests, the server configuration and the time and date of the response to how and for how long the client should store the data, what format the data is in, those cookies used to track sessions and so on. Which brings us to the last basic principle. HTTP works based on request/response pairs. Every action performed over HTTP starts with a request using one of the HTTP methods and ends with a response containing an HTTP status code saying what happened to the request along with the data like headers and content.

## HTTP1, HTTP2, HTTPS

- Quick sidebar, when people talk about HTTP, they often refer to HTTPS and HTTP/2, and it's important to know what these things are right off the top. Just like every other web technology, the HTTP protocol is constantly evolving and new features are added to make it work better, faster, and with new technologies. When I talk about HTTP in this course, I'll be referring to version two of the protocol, simply called HTTP/2. HTTP/2 is relatively new in web terms, and as of right now, powers between 70 and 80 percent of all transactions over the web. The older protocol, HTTP/1.1, is still very much alive, and it's also the fallback protocol anytime HTTP/2 fails, which means you will encounter HTTP/1.1 from time to time now, and in the future. So, what's the difference between HTTP/2 and HTTP/1.1? the most important points are HTTP/2 is faster and more secure. It uses compression algorithms to speed up requests, allows for multi-plexing, meaning multiple files are sent over connection at the same time and requires an encrypted connection between the client and the server through HTTPS. By contrast, HTTP/1 sends uncompressed headers, transfers only one file at a time over a connection, and has no default encryption. What does all this mean? Well, in an ideal world, every HTTP transaction would be done over an encrypted HTTPS connection using the HTTP/2 protocol. In the real world, it means most HTTP transactions will use HTTPS over HTTP/2, and when that doesn't work, they'll fall back on unencrypted HTTP/1.1, which, while slower, still works just as well.

## HTTP terms

- Browser
The browser is an application used to access and navigate between HTML documents, nothing more, nothing less. Browsers come in many varieties, the most common being the regular visual browsers you see on your smartphone or tablet or computer. Other browsers include text-to-speech audio browsers, text-only browsers, VR, AR, MR, XR browsers, et cetera, et cetera.

- User Agent

A user agent is an application that is acting on behalf of the user, so a literal user agent. It is also commonly referred to as a client application. When we talk about HTTP, the user agent in question is whatever application is transporting information from the user to a server and back. That job typically falls to the browser, but it's not limited to the browser. It can also be middleware or a service like Google or even a server.

- TCP
TCP is short for Transmission Control Protocol. It is one of the main internet protocols used by, among other things, the World Wide Web, email, FTPs, a file transfer protocol, and remote administration. When you connect to a service over the internet, you are probably using a TCP connection.

- IP
IP is short for Internet Protocol, the protocol used to actually transfer data between computers over a network. Each computer connected to the internet has a dedicated IP address which is used to connect to it.

- URL
The URL is quite literally a Universal Resource Locator, a universally understood address pointing at a resource somewhere on the web. URLs are human-readable addresses stored in Domain Name Servers and configured to point to the IP addresses of web servers. When you type in a web address in the address bar of your browser, that address is automatically prefixed with either HTTP or HTTPS, telling you you are using the Hypertext Transfer Protocol to access the resource at the other end of that universal locator.

- Server

A server is a computer on the internet running some form of data storage and sharing application, most commonly a web server application, allowing users to access its data through the HTTP protocol. HTTP is a client server protocol, meaning the clients, or user agent, most commonly the browser, sends request to the server and the server serves responses back to the client.

- Proxy

A proxy is a service, either software or hardware, acting as a middle person between clients and servers. Proxies are often used when the IP address of a server needs to be hidden or when a server or client sits behind some sort of network barrier like a firewall. The proxy is quite literally a proxy handing data back and forth.

- Request Response

Clients and servers communicate over HTTP using request-response pairs. Whenever a client, typically a browser, talks to a server, it does so by sending an HTTP request. That request contains a request method describing what action is requested, an address pointing to a resource, and other information about the client. If the client is trying to send information to the server, that information is also packaged in the request as a payload. The response is the literal response to the request. It contains a status response code explaining what happened, information about how the response was handled, and any data requested if the response was successful.

- Header

Requests and responses use HTTP headers to identify themselves and explain what they want. Every request and response has a header and some also have payloads, the data that's transferred. The header contains metadata about the request facilitating communication between clients and servers.
the HTTP protocol is stateless, meaning it doesn't store any information between requests. This means, if a client, or the server, or both, need information about the state of the other, or any other information, we have to send that information along with our request or response. That's what HTTP headers are for

-method/verbs

The headers of an HTTP request always contain a request method, or verb. These methods are words like get to get something, put to put something, update to update something, delete to delete something, et cetera.

- status code

The header of an HTTP response always contains a status response code. These are numerical codes in the 100 to 500 range describing what type of response the client is receiving, 200 OK, 404 Not Found, 500 Server Error, et cetera.

- cache

Web servers and clients can cache, so literally store data for a specified length of time to speed up transfers and performance. As an example, when you visit a regular we0bsite, your browser will likely download the CSS for that website once and then cache it in its memory so when you navigate to the next page or come back to the site later, you don't have to re-download that CSS file. Websites and web servers can instruct clients to cache files, clear cached files, or update specific cached files. All this is done through instructions passed in a cache header.

- stateless

HTTP is a stateless protocol, meaning there is no link between two requests being sent between the client and the server. When we need to create a stateful session, we can use cookies, small pieces of information passed back and forth between the client and the server in the HTTP header to notify each party of the state the other is in. This, for example, is how once you've logged into a service, you typically stayed logged in. The server has placed a cookie in your browser in its cache and when you visit the site the next time, that cookie is sent back to the server saying, hey, we've already met and you trust me, so just let me in.

## The HTTP flow

TO get a clear idea of how HTTP works, imagine the whole web as a library and you are a client looking for information. In this library, each cubby in a shelf is a website. A site can carry a bunch of different information, documents, images, video and audio, style sheets, JavaScript files, et cetera. When you want to see what's in one of these websites, you go to a librarian and make a hypertext transfer protocol request. Can I get the stuff in cubby number four? This request is received and handled by the librarian representing servers on the web who goes to the cubby, gathers up the relevant pieces to match your request, and hands them back with a response status.

1. This is the flow of all HTTP transactions. First, the browser opens a TCP connection to the server. This ensures data can be sent back and forth over the network and that the data sent from one end is put together the same way at the other end. If the connection happens over HTTPS, TLS certificates are exchanged to ensure only the computer and the server can encrypt and decrypt the transmitted data. This prevents anyone from being able to eavesdrop on the conversation between the client and the server and steal the data they are transmitting.
2. Second, the browser sends an HTTP message. This message always contains an HTTP method, like GET, PUT, DELETE or something similar, and a URL pointing at the requested resource. It can also contain headers like cookies or authentication data and data if the browser is submitting data to the server using the post, put, or path methods.
3. Third, the server performs the requested actions and sends a response back to the browser. This response will contain an HTTP status message indicating what happened, headers with information about the response, and whatever data was requested. This data could be an HTML document or a style sheet or a JavaScript file or image or any other type of content used in a standard website.
4. Finally, once the response is fully received, the TCP connection is closed. Since HTTP is stateless, we are now back to a clean slate. In most scenarios, the first HTTP transaction between a browser and a server is to retrieve a web document for a page or a view. This document typically holds links to CSS and JavaScript files as well as referenced elements like images. Each of these items is fetched from their server and brought into the browser using the same HTTP flow. HTTP/2 allows multiplexing, meaning multiple transactions can take place over the same TCP connection at the the same time. This new protocol also allows the server to push data to the browser, meaning if the browser requests a specific document, the server can say, "hey, this document depends "on these other files, so I'll push them "to you at the same time." All of this improves performance and reduces the load time for webpages and views significantly.
