Generally there are two ways of translating to machine language or something that our computers can understand. 

## Interpreter 
With the interpreter we translate and read the files line by line on the fly. 
The interpreter sees the first line, then the second line, then the third line.
Interpreting code simply means taking a set of instructions like we have over here and returning an answer and doing something with that code. 

## Compiler

A compiler, unlike an interpreter, doesn't translate on the fly. What it does is it works ahead of time to create a translation of what code we've just written. And it compiles down to usually a language that can be understood by our machines. 
With the compiler it's going to take one pass through the code. And try to understand what the code does. 
And it's going to take the program in JS or any type of language and write a new program in your new language. 
Compiler tries to understand what we want to do and takes our language and changes it into something else.
And this usually happens into something called a lower level language such as machine code. 

Most languages are both compiled and interpreted. 

There are two ways to run JS. Using an interpreter or a compiler. 

## Babel + TypeScript

Babel is a Javascript compiler that takes your modern JS code and returns  browser compatible JS (older JS code).
Typescript is a superset of Javascript that compiles down to Javascript.

```js
function foo(a,b){
    return a + b;
}

for(let i = 0; i< 1000; i++){
    foo(5,4)
}
```

## Pros and cons
Interpreters are quick to get up and running.
With the interpreter we don't have to convert this into another language like language X as do compiler. There is no compilation step before you can start running your code. You just give this to an interpreter and the interpreter starts translating their first line and just runs the code for us. 
JS originally was created for the browser. 
So being able to interpreter JS and run it as fast as possible, well that was ideal. And this is exactly why JS used interpreters at the beginning. 
But there's a con with using an interpreter. 
And this is the same problem that Google had back in the day when they had Google Maps running a lot of JS.
But it'll get slower and slower because the problem with interpreters is that when you're running the same code more than once, for example, if your're in a loop, it can get really slow. 

THe compiler actually helps us here. It takes a little bit more time to start up cuz it has to go through that compilation step at the beginning, understand it, and spit it out into a another language. 
But the compiler will be smart enough that when it sees code like this that we just loop over and it has the same input, returning the same output, it can actually just simplify this code.  
ANd instead of calling this function multiple times can just replace this function with something like 9 cuz we know that we want to return 9.
Cuz a compiler doesn't need to repeat the translation for each pass through. 
And the code generated from it is actually faster and these sort of edits that compilers do are called optimizations. 

Interpreter doesn't do any optimization. 

## JIT compiler

What if, instead of using the compiler and interpreter, we combine these two? ANd create something called JIt compiler.
And this is exactly what browsers started doing. Browsers started mixing compilers to make the engines faster. 