## Call Stack and Memory heap

You see, we learned that the JavaScript engine does a lot of work for us, but the biggest thing is actually reading our code and executing it right.

We need a place to store and write information.
That is, to store our variables, our objects, our data of our apps, and a place to actually run and keep track of what's happening line by line on our code.
Well, we use call stack and memory heap for that.

We need the memory heap as a place to store and write information because at the end of the day, all programs are just read and write operations.
That way we have a place to allocate memory, use memory and release memory.

And with the call stack we need a place to keep track of where we are in the code so that we can run the code in order.

And with these two things, the JavaScript engine is able to do that.

So to review the memory heap is where the memory allocation happens and the call stack is where the engine
keeps track of where your code is in its execution.

if we have a 

```js
const number = 234;
const human = {
    name: "Alex"
}
```

We're going to tell the engine Hey, please allocate memory for a number variable or Hey, I'm going to assign this human variable, and this human variable is going to point any time I call it, to a region in memory, in our memory heap that has these values.


## Memory heap

Our memory heap is simply a free store, is a large region in memory that the JavaScript engine provides for us, which can be used to store any type of arbitrary data in an unordered fashion.
There's no order to this memory.
It just allows us to use variables to point to different storage areas.
We know that the engine takes care of for us to put data into storage for us.

And we use the memory heap to actually point to different variables and objects and data that we store so that we know where to look.

## Call Stack

```js
function calculate(){
    const sumTotal = 4 + 5;
    return sumTotal;
}

calculate()
```

So as we know, this function is going to be allocated to memory so that any time we call calculate.
It's going to look in memory and see. Oh, yeah, calculate. I have it right here. Run this piece of code.
And every time we run this code, calculate, we use the call stack. 
So we can think of call stack as a region in memory which operates in fILO mode.

The Call stack stores functions and variables as your code executes. Each entry state of the stack also called the stack frame, which is the frame over here. These stacks allow us to know where we are in the code.


Now, since every JavaScript engine has different implementations, where variables are allocated is not 100% the same all the time.
So a good way to think about it as this simple variables can usually be stored on the stack and we'll learn about this later on.
And objects, complex data structures like objects, arrays and functions which we're going to talk about are stored in memory heaps.