- JavaScript runtime is an environment which provides all the necessary components in order to use and run a JavaScript program.
- Every browser has a JavaScript engine
- JavaScript engine is one component in the JavaScript runtime
- the JavaScript code we write is executed in Chrome's JavaScript runtime which consist of the following components: 
1. V8 javascript engine
2. WEB/Browser API
3. Queues
4. Event Loop

- V8 engine consist of
1. Memory heap - which is nothing but memory to store all the variables that a JavaScript application needs
2. Call Stack - where JavaScript code gets executed

- All web apis are provided by the browser

As we mentioned, JavaScript is a single threaded programming language, it has only one stack and one heap.
If any other program wants to execute something, it has to wait until the previous program or function is completely executed.

And this is where JavaScript runtime comes in.
In this case, the web browser is working in the background, while the synchronous JavaScript code is running, and it's using something called the Web API or the web browser API to communicate and let the JS engine know -  Hey, I'm back with some data, some work that you told me to do in the background.

The Web API comes with the browser.
Chrome.
Microsoft.
Edge.
Safari.
Firefox.
All of them have their JavaScript engine implementation, and all of them have a JavaScript runtime that provide a web API.

These Web APIs are applications, which can do a variety of things like send HTTP requests, listen to DOM events, maybe click events on a Dom. It can even be used for caching or database storage on the browser.

If we go to the console and I look at the window object. Well, this is what the browser provides. This is the web API that we can use so that if I scroll down here, I can see different things that the browser provides for us that our JavaScript engine can use.
For example 
- fetch. That is the function to make HTTP calls we can use that.
- index DB, that's actually a little database that we can use on our browser. That the browser provides for us.

So remember that the browsers are helping us create rich web applications, so that users aren't just sitting around waiting for our JavaScript to execute anything that can be offloaded. They'll take care of that for us in the background.
Because you can imagine if the browser had to use the same JavaScript thread for execution of these features, well, it's going to take a really long time.


So browsers actually underneath the hood use low level programming languages like C++ to perform these operations in the background.

And these web APIs are what we call asynchronous.
- DOM
- fetch
- setTimeout()

That means you can instruct these APIs to do something in the background and return data once it's done.
Meanwhile, we can just continue working on our JavaScript call stack and execute functions.

These are part of the Web API.
## ASYNC operation 

This is what happens underneath the hood.
We have items on the call stack and as soon as something comes up, like setTimeout, that's not part of JavaScript, it's part of the web API.
The call stack is going to say, Oh, I have something that's not for me here.
It's for the web browser, for the web API. So it's going to say, Hey, Web API, here it is. I don't know what to do with this. You take care of it.
The web API is going to say, I know what set timeout is.
Let me take care of that and do that in the background.

So once the web API is done working on it, maybe it's fetching some data from a server, it's going to say, all right, I'm done with this work.
Here's the data and here's perhaps a callback of what I want you to do with that data.

And then the event loop as soon as the call stack is free is going to say, Hey, I have something for you here. Would you like to add it onto the stack?
And if the stack is empty, it's going to push this callback onto the stack.

```js
console.log(1)
setTimeout(()=>{
    console.log(2)
})
console.log(3)
```
1. For example we added console.log to our stack and we logged onto our console and then we removed that call from our call stack. 
Then we went to the next line set timeout.

We added this onto our stack and then immediately the JavaScript engine is going to say, Oh, set timeout, that's a web API.
I don't really care about it. I don't know what to do with it.
I'm going to just send it off to the web API so this gets moved away from the call stack and gets sent to the web API.
Now, we don't know what's happening on that side of things, but we just go to the next line and say, console.log 3. It's going to log 3.

Now behind the scenes, the Web API is going to take the setTimeout. It's going to start a timer. That is going to run for 1/2. And once that 1/2 is over, it's going to push the callback.

And then it's calling us back saying, Hey, we're ready for you. 1/2 has passed. Can you console.log 2?
And what happens now.
The console log 2 goes to the callback queue, and says, I'm the first person that's done, can you console.log 2?
The event Loop is a loop that's constantly running that's saying, hey, is the call stack empty?
And the event loop only runs once the call stack is empty and the entire JavaScript file has been read.

So in our case, after console log 3 gets printed and popped off the call stack, The event loop is going to tick and say, All right, can you console log 2?

And using this method, we're able to have this power of asynchronous code, that is, instead of being limited to one call stack and one memory heap, whenever we get tasks that can be asynchronous that take a long time, possibly like modifying DOM or making HTTP requests, well, in that case, we can just send that off to the browser.
The browser can just run that in the background, and whenever we're ready, it can just use its callback queue and event loop to notify us.