Object oriented programming and functional programming are paradigms that allow us to organize code in a way that is easy to reason about.

By using these paradigms, we're going to make code more clear and more understandable. We're going to make code easy to extend.It's going to be memory efficient. And then finally it's going to keep our code dry.
And that's what programming paradigms are. It allows us to make complex code more organized.

Object oriented programming says that bringing together the data and its behavior in a single location called an object and containing all of that in a box, makes it easier to understand how our programs work.

Functional Programming says that data and behavior are distinctly different things and should be kept separate for clarity.
So perhaps instead of having a one giant box to describe everything, we have multiple boxes.
We can use both of these techniques to make our code easy to reason about, to make it clearer, to make it more understandable, easy to extend, more efficient.

And without closures, we wouldn't be able to do the things that we're going to show you for functional programming and without prototypes, we're not going to be able to do the things that we're going to be able to do in object oriented programming.

## OOP

Object oriented programming has been around since the seventies, and it's a style of programming that is very common in languages like C, Sharp, Python, Ruby and obviously Java.

There's class based programming languages and prototype based programming languages.
And as we know with JavaScript, we have prototype inheritance.

```JS
CONST dragon = {
name: "H",
fire: true,
fight(){
    return 5
}
}
```
We had data about the dragon such as name and ability to breathe fire. And we also had methods, actions that the dragon can take. And OOP, this data can also be called State.
And we've wrapped this dragon in an object to model real world dragon that contains some sort of data about the dragon and also the actions that the dragon can take.
These attributes or properties allow us to keep track of the state of the object, and these methods allow us to manipulate the state of the object so that we model the real world.
And that's what we want to do with object oriented programming.

But the beauty with JavaScript is that it's multi paradigm. It allows us to have a lot of options to code the way that we want it, based on the problem at hand and based on what type of team dynamic you have with other programmers.