
## Modules

Modules allow you to divide the codebase into small units that can be developed and tested independently. Modules are also the main mechanism to enforce information hiding by keeping private all the functions and variables that are not explicitly marked to be exported.
- In node.js each file is a module but is isolated by default.
- It's always good to split your JavaScript programs into separate modules that can be imported when needed, that allows you to easily manage the code as your application grows.

In total we have three different types of modules 

1. local modules - modules that we create in our application 
2. built-in modules - modules that node ships with out of the box 
3. third-party modules - modules written by other developers that we can use in our application

- Node.js currently comes with two different module systems: CommonJS (CJS) and ECMAScript modules (ESM or ES modules).

- The module parameter (rather a keyword in a module in Node) refers to the object representing the current module. It contains all the information about current module.
- Exports is a key of the module object, the corresponding value of which is an object. The default value of module.exports object is {} (empty object). 
You can check this by logging the value of module keyword inside any module. Let’s check what is the value of module parameter inside the circle module.

```js
module.k=12;
console.og(module)

// Result
// Module {
//   id: '.',
//   path: '/Users/Satenik_Karapetyan/Documents/LevelAP',
//   exports: { s: 34 },
//   filename: '/Users/Satenik_Karapetyan/Documents/LevelAP/index.js',
//   loaded: false,
//   children: [],
//   paths: [
//     '/Users/Satenik_Karapetyan/Documents/LevelAP/node_modules',
//     '/Users/Satenik_Karapetyan/Documents/node_modules',
//     '/Users/Satenik_Karapetyan/node_modules',
//     '/Users/node_modules',
//     '/node_modules'
//   ],
//   k: 12
// }
```
Notice that there is a console.log(module); statement at the end of the code in the file given above. When you see the output, it will log the module object, which has a key named exports and the value corresponding to this key is {} (an empty object).

- Also when we print (this) inside of module, it will refer to module.exports.
