## Module Caching

Let’s have a look at the following three snippets of code. Here’s a basic express server:
```js
var express = require(‘express’);
var http = require(‘http’);
var app = express();
var module1 = require(‘./module1’);
var module2 = require(‘./module2’);
http.createServer(app).listen(8000, function() {
  console.log(‘Server listening on port ‘ + 8000);
  module1.init();
  module2.test();
});
```
As you can see, I’ve required two modules on lines 5 and 6 (using variables module1 and module2). Here’s module1:

```js
var ModuleObject1 = function(){
  this.attribute1 = null;
  this.attribute2 = null;
}
ModuleObject1.prototype.init = function(){
  this.attribute1 = “initiated!”;
  this.attribute2 = “also initiated”;
}
module.exports = new ModuleObject1();
```

All module1 really does is instantiate an object with some null properties when required in other modules. The ‘init’ method gives these properties values, but before this method is invoked, these properties remain null.

Now have a look at module2:
```js
var module1 = require(‘./module1’);
var ModuleObject2 = function(){};
ModuleObject2.prototype.test = function(){
  if (module1.attribute1 !== null && module1.attribute2 !== null){
    console.log(“server-induced changes to module1 persist in the cache!”);
  }
}
module.exports = new ModuleObject2();
```

module1 is required in this module, but has not yet been initialized.

Here’s where things get interesting. Run server.js, and you should see the module2’s test() method pass and log something to the console, meaning that the object the module1 variable is pointing to had properties with values. But its init() method was never called within the scope of module2!

It would make sense to assume that the require statements in both server.js and module2.js create different instances of an object, but they don’t. The module gets cached during the first require statement, meaning only one instance of that object is created — subsequent require statements in other modules just enable us to access that same object. That’s why changes we made to the object in server.js persist when we access the object in module2 — both server.js and module2 really just access the same object.

We can break this functionality pretty easily by moving the ‘new’ keyword, enabling us to instantiate different objects that are accessible in different scopes. Let’s try it.

Here’s the new server.js:
```js
var express = require(‘express’);
var http = require(‘http’);
var app = express();
var module1constructor = require(‘./module1’);
var module1 = new module1constructor();
var module2 = require(‘./module2’);
http.createServer(app).listen(8000, function() {
  console.log(‘Server listening on port ‘ + 8000);
  module1.init();
  module2.test();
});
```

Here’s the new module1:

```js
var ModuleObject1 = function(){
  this.attribute1 = null;
  this.attribute2 = null;
}
ModuleObject1.prototype.init = function(){
  this.attribute1 = “initiated!”;
  this.attribute2 = “also initiated”;
}
module.exports = ModuleObject1;
```

And here’s the new module2:

```js
var module1constructor = require(‘./module1’);
var module1 = new module1constructor();
var ModuleObject2 = function(){};
ModuleObject2.prototype.test = function(){
  if (module1.attribute1 !== null && module1.attribute2 !== null){
  console.log(“server-induced changes to module1 persist in the cache!”);
  }
}
module.exports = new ModuleObject2();
```

Run server.js. This time, you should notice that nothing is printed to the console.

Let’s take a look at how this works. module1 does indeed get its properties assigned string values because we invoked its init() method — but the module1 variable now points to a distinct object that is only accessible within the scope of server.js. The same is true of module2; it’s no longer accessing a cached object: it’s now accessing an instance of an object class within its own scope. We’re still caching something, though — we’re caching the constructor function as opposed to the object. You’d still be able to log a string to the console by invoking the attribute1 and attribute2 properties of module1, but module2.init() interfaces with a different object that has not yet had its init() method invoked.

This caching functionality might have major implications for your project, so try to get comfortable with how it works!


