Anonymous vs. Named Functions


But does that mean we should always put that name into the code? Here's where I'll raise more than a few eyebrows. I say, unequivocally, yes!

First of all, "anonymous" showing up in stack traces is just not all that helpful to debugging:

```js
btn.addEventListener("click",function(){
    setTimeout(function(){
        ["a",42].map(function(v){
            console.log(v.toUpperCase());
        });
    },100);
});
// Uncaught TypeError: v.toUpperCase is not a function
//     at myProgram.js:4
//     at Array.map (<anonymous>)
//     at myProgram.js:3
```
Ugh. Compare to what is reported if I give the functions names:

```js
btn.addEventListener("click",function onClick(){
    setTimeout(function waitAMoment(){
        ["a",42].map(function allUpper(v){
            console.log(v.toUpperCase());
        });
    },100);
});
// Uncaught TypeError: v.toUpperCase is not a function
//     at allUpper (myProgram.js:4)
//     at Array.map (<anonymous>)
//     at waitAMoment (myProgram.js:3)
```

Lastly, and I think most importantly of all, leaving off a name from a function makes it harder for the reader to tell what the function's purpose is, at a quick glance. They have to read more of the code, including the code inside the function, and the surrounding code outside the function, to figure it out.

The JS engine doesn't care about the name. But human readers of your code absolutely do.

Can the reader look at v % 2 == 1 and figure out what it's doing? Sure. But they have to infer the purpose (and name) by mentally executing the code. Even a brief pause to do so slows down reading of the code. A good descriptive name makes this process almost effortless and instant.


Think of it this way: how many times does the author of this code need to figure out the purpose of a function before adding the name to the code? About once. Maybe two or three times if they need to adjust the name. But how many times will readers of this code have to figure out the name/purpose? Every single time this line is ever read. Hundreds of times? Thousands? More?

No matter the length or complexity of the function, my assertion is, the author should figure out a good descriptive name and add it to the code. Even the one-liner functions in map(..) and then(..) statements should be named:

```js
lookupTheRecords(someData)
.then(function extractSalesRecords(resp){
   return resp.allSales;
})
.then(storeRecords);

The name extractSalesRecords tells the reader the purpose of this then(..) handler better than just inferring that purpose from mentally executing return resp.allSales.



```