
Primitive values contain only a single thing (be it a string or a number or whatever).
In contrast, objects are used to store keyed collections of various data and more complex entities.

## Objects

A variable assigned to an object stores not the object itself, but its “address in memory” – in other words “a reference” to it.
The object is stored somewhere in memory (at the right of the picture), while the user variable (at the left) has a “reference” to it.

When an object variable is copied, the reference is copied, but the object itself is not duplicated.

```js
let user = { name: "John" };

let admin = user; // copy the reference
```
Now we have two variables, each storing a reference to the same object:


## This

The value of this is the object “before dot”, the one used to call the method.
The value of this is evaluated during the run-time, depending on the context.
In JavaScript this is “free”, its value is evaluated at call-time and does not depend on where the method was declared, but rather on what object is “before the dot”.

Arrow functions are special: they don’t have their “own” this. If we reference this from such a function, it’s taken from the outer “normal” function.

When a function is declared, it may use this, but that this has no value until the function is called.

## Wrapper objects

When we treat a primitive value like it was an object (i.e. by accessing properties and methods), JavaScript creates, under the hood, a wrapper to wrap this value and expose it as an object. The JS engine never reuses a wrapper object, giving them to the garbage collector right after a single use.

If you write something like const surname = ‘Freddie Mercury’.substr(8, 7);, you’re not storing a reference to the created wrapper object in the surname variable; actually, what is being assigned is the primitive value itself. Therefore, if you run console.log(surname.toUpperCase());, JavaScript will create a brand new wrapper object to wrap the primitive value stored in the surname variable, expose its properties and utility methods (e.g. toUpperCase) and finally dispose it once again.