Each context has a link to its outside world or a link to its parent.

And this outer environment depends on where the function sits lexically.
Lexically means where the function is written.
So all the functions have their own variable environment. They have access to their own variables, but they also have little link to its outer environment, what we call a scope chain and this scope chain links and gives us access to variables that are in our parent environment.

- Example
The JavaScript engine is going to say, all right, I have variable B but don't have variable X, let me go into my parent environment.

- In JavaScript our lexical scope (which is the available data and variables where the function was defined, that is where we write it) determines our available variables. Not where the function is called, which is dynamic scope.
- Scope means what variables we have access to 

This idea of lexical scope, which is also called static scope in a language, means that only by looking at the source code, we can determine which environment the variables and data are available in, and that's what the compiler does.

We know what environments are linked to each other and we know what data can be accessed by which function.
And the scope chain starts where the variable is defined and goes all the way down to the global context to see if the variable exists.

### Global scope
- So global scope is the outermost scope.So variables declared outside a function are in what we call global scope. And they can be accessed in any other scope that is inside of the functions. We can always access global scope.

### Local Scope
- Now local scope, that is any scope that is local to a function. Now variables declared in this local scope are accessible within the scope as well as any scopes surrounding it.

Lexical Scope === [[scope]]
Now in Google Chrome developer browser, you can actually see this property by opening window object, then find the function and see properties inside of that function.

```js
var foo = function zoo(){
    return 12;
}

zoo() //reference error
```
This is because the zoo function is actually enclosed in its own scope. zoo gets actually added to its own execution contexts variable environment. We can only access it inside of that function.