
### Cluster

Cluster is mainly used for vertically (adding more power to your existing machine) scale your nodejs web server. It is built on top of the child_process module. In an Http server, the cluster module uses child_process.fork() to automatically fork processes and sets up a master-slave architecture where the parent process distributes the incoming request to the child processes in a round-robin fashion. Ideally, the number of processes forked should be equal to the number of cpu cores your machine has.

let's build an express server using the cluster module.
```js
const cluster = require("cluster")
Copy
const http = require("http")
const cpuCount = require("os").cpus().length //returns no of cores our cpu have

if (cluster.isMaster) {
  masterProcess()
} else {
  childProcess()
}

function masterProcess() {
  console.log(`Master process ${process.pid} is running`)

  //fork workers.

  for (let i = 0; i < cpuCount; i++) {
    console.log(`Forking process number ${i}...`)
    cluster.fork() //creates new node js processes
  }
  cluster.on("exit", (worker, code, signal) => {
    console.log(`worker ${worker.process.pid} died`)
    cluster.fork() //forks a new process if any process dies
  })
}

function childProcess() {
  const express = require("express")
  const app = express()
  //workers can share TCP connection

  app.get("/", (req, res) => {
    res.send(`hello from server ${process.pid}`)
  })

  app.listen(5555, () =>
    console.log(`server ${process.pid} listening on port 5555`)
  )
}
```

When we run the code above, what happens is that for the very first time cluster.isMaster will be true and masterProcess() function is executed. This function forks 4 nodejs processes (i have 4 cores in my cpu) and whenever another process is forked, the same file is run again but this time cluster.isMaster will be false because the process is now a child process since it is forked. So the control goes to the else condition. As a result, the childProcess() function is executed 4 times and 4 instances of an express server are created. Subsequent request are distributed to the four servers in a round-robin fashion. This helps us to use 100% of our cpu. The node js documentation also says that there are some built-in smarts to avoid overloading a worker process.

The cluster module is the easiest and fastest way to vertically scale a simple nodejs server. For more advanced and elastic scaling, tools like docker containers and Kubernetes are used.

Conclusion
Even though Node js provides great support for multi-threading, that doesn't necessarily mean we should always make our web applications multi-threaded. Node js is built in such a way that the default single-threaded behavior is preferred over the multi-threaded behaviour for web-servers because web-servers tend to be IO-bound and nodejs is great for handling asynchronous IO operations with minimal system resources and Nodejs is famous for this feature. The extra overhead and complexity of another thread or process makes it really difficult for a programmer to work with simple IO tasks. But there are some cases where a web server does CPU bound operations and in such cases, it is really easy to spin up a worker thread or child process and delegate that task. So, our design architecture really boils down to our application's need and requirements and we should make decisions based on that.
