- Python is a high-level programming language. It has a strong abstraction from the computer characteristics and resembles natural human language.

- Even though Python is generally considered an interpreted language, this is not completely true. The source code of the program is first compiled into an intermediate format called bytecode. Then, this low-level instruction runs on a Python virtual machine (PVM). The PVM is software for converting bytecode line by line into machine code so that the computer can execute the instructions and display the final output.

- Python is a member of the family of an object-oriented languages (OOLs).An OOL is a high-level computer programming language that devises objects with their associated methods to create software programs. Therefore, Python supports OOP. It employs objects with clearly defined inter-connections and interactions. However, though it is an OOP, Python can also be used for functional programming.


## Speed Limitations
Though Python was designed to make programming faster, it can't boast the same results in execution speed as other popular compiled languages such as C ++ or Java (see here for more information). A Python program is interpreted at runtime, line by line, instead of being compiled to the machine code in one piece. It brings advantages in terms of debugging, but this leads to performance loss during execution.
Also worth mentioning is that dynamic semantics contribute to the slowing down of program execution as well.

# No multithreading
Python uses a mechanism called a global interpreter lock (GIL), which allows only one thread to be executed at a time. The GIL creates a bottleneck for multithreaded programs that run multiple workflows simultaneously. This prevents you from taking full advantage of modern multicore processors, which can execute several tasks concurrently.

## High memory consumption
Python is often criticized for its high resource usage. Even though Python has a garbage collector to manage memory, it doesn't return resources to the system immediately. Moreover, if any of the objects in your code save any references on this outdated object, it can't be deleted. Due to these factors, Python programs tend to run out of memory easily.