## EC
When the JavaScript engine sees brackets(), it's going to say, Oh, I'm going to run a function and create an execution context.So the first thing it does is create an function execution context and add this execution context onto the call stack. After finishing execution, functions gets popped off from call stack.

## GEC

Initially our JavaScript engine is going to create a global execution context. We don't see this.
It's underneath the hood, but it's saying, Hey, here's the JavaScript file for you, just start reading it for me.

Whenever code is run in JavaScript, it is run inside of an execution context. Any time we run code in JavaScript, it's always going to be part of an execution context.

Global execution context, remember, that's the very first item on the stack.
The first thing the JavaScript engine does is to create this global execution context, and it gives you two things.
1. First thing is a global object, 
2. and the other thing is the this keyword in JavaScript.

That means we can just give an empty file to, let's say, the browser, and we should have a global object
and the this keyword already defined without to do anything by us. The browser has created a global execution context for us.

### Creation Execution phase 
So once we have done this what we call a creation phase in our JavaScript engine. We then have a second phase, and that second phase is called the execution phase where you actually run your code.

Now we're going to expand on this a little bit, but to review when code is run on the JavaScript engine.
A global execution context is created. And when you run a function, is created a function execution context.

And we start running our code until everything gets popped off the stack and all of our code is run.