### lexical environment

Every time we have a function, it creates a new LE for us inside of that function.

In JavaScript our lexical scope (which is the available data and variables where the function was defined, that is where we write it) determines our available variables. Not where the function is called, which is dynamic scope.

the very first lexical environment is the global lexical environment where we write our code.

## Variable Environment
The variable environment is a representation of the lexical environment’s local memory. In the environment record, the lexical environment stores variables as well as other information such as the infamous this.

The variable environment maps the local scope of a given environment. In other words, the variable environment stores those variables defined within the given working code block {}.

```js
This answer relates to ECMA-262 ed 5.1. Later editions have modified the description of variable and lexical environments to accommodate lexical scoping of let and const (which are both block scoped).

According to ECMA-262 §10.3, variable environment is a certain type of lexical environment. Both are "specification types" that are used solely to describe features of ECMAScript. You can't access them or modify them directly in anyway, and ECMAScript implementations don't have to implement them in any specific way, they just have to behave as if they were implemented per the specification.

A lexical environment consists of an environment record, which can be thought of as an object whose properties are the variable and function names declared within the associated execution context. It also has, for functions, identifiers from the formal parameter list in the function declaration or expression (e.g. function foo(a, b){} effectively declares a and b as variables on foo's environment record).

A lexical environment also has a link to any outer lexical environment (i.e. its scope chain), so it is used to resolve identifiers outside the current an execution context (e.g. global variables from within a function). They can be associated with other structures besides functions and execution contexts, e.g. try..catch and with statements.

A variable environment is just part of a lexical environment within the execution context, essentially just the variables and functions declared within the current context.
```
### Hoisting

Hoisting is the behavior of moving the variables or function declarations to the top of their respective environments during compilation/creation phase. Variables are partially hoisted and function declarations are hoisted.

It is the JavaScript engine allocating memory for the variables and functions that it sees in your code during the creation phase before it executes it.

So what happens underneath the hood is that during the creation phase, the JavaScript engine is going to look through the code and as soon as it sees two things either the var keyword or the function keyword, it's going to say, Oh, let me allocate some memory because he's going to need some memory.

During compilation creation phase
- Variables with var keyword will be hoisted and initialized with the value of undefined, so when I said variables are partially hoisted, we hoist the variable but not the right side.
- Function declaration are fully hoisted during compilation creation phase.


Now, unlike what I told you initially, the compiler isn't actually moving variables all the way up or function all the way up. It looks like it may, but what it's doing is simply having one pass through the code and saying reserve memory or assigned memory into this space.

If we look at our diagram with hoisting during our global execution phase, we're simply saying, hey, we're going to have a few functions and a few variables, can you allocate some memory for us here?
When we see console.log(Teddy) the JavaScript engine is during its execution phase is going to say, Hey, can you grab Teddy from memory?

it's important to remember that during this creation phase, we also have this act of hoisting something that's quite unique to JavaScript.

If we have function declaration with the same name
```js
function a(){1}
function a(){2}
```
During the creation phase, we look at the function, the compiler says I'm going to hoist this and I'm going to put this someplace in memory for us.
And then it keeps going to the next line and says, Oh, here's function again. I'm going to put this in memory.
And because this even though this is the same thing because we're doing it one after another It's going to rewrite that place in memory.

- Hoisting happens on every execution context.
Any time we run a function a new execution context gets created and we have to go through the creation phase and execution phase again.
Now, as soon as we run a function, a new execution context is created. And inside of this execution context hoisting happens during the creation phase.

So now during the execution phase we don't need the var keywords anymore because they've been created during the creation phase.