So we do a function invocation by simply running.
And as soon as the JavaScript engine sees this foo(), it creates an execution context.

Function expression is defined at runtime.
When we actually run the function or call the function or execute the function or invoke the function, that's when we define what this function does.
VS
Function Declaration gets defined at parse time. That is when the compiler initially looks at the code and starts hoisting and allocating memory.

### Function Execution Context

When a function is invoked, well, we create a new execution context on top of our global execution context.
And we get a few things.
- this keyword
But unlike the global execution context that gave us a global object that equals to this.
- arguments Instead, with a function invocation, we get something called arguments, and that's another key word in JavaScript.

We don't really get arguments in the global object, arguments is only available to us when we create a new execution context with a function.

### Arguments

Argument is a little bit dangerous to use. Because arguments looks like an array, but it's not really an array.
So there are many things that you can do with the arguments keyword that might make the compiler or the JavaScript engine less able to optimize your code because you can't really use array methods on this.
- use Array.from(arguments)

We can't really use arguments because that is a reserved word in JavaScript.
So with modern JavaScript, you most likely want to avoid arguments. It's one of those tricky things that was initially added to JavaScript that caused a lot of problems and headache.