You might be asking yourself, what about variables that are created inside of functions.
With this and arguments we also have variable environment. This is a place that variables can live. I mean, they all technically live in our JavaScript engine memory, but they need to know how they relate to one another.
- Variable environment, a place where we store information.

Some functions have access to their certain variables and some don't.
Functions like planets, they don't have an access to each other.

```js
function two() {
    var isValid;
}

function one(){
    var isValid = true;
    two();
}

var isValid = false;
one()
```

The first thing that happens, we have function declarations, so these get hoisted and put at the top allocating memory space for them.
We also have var isValid, which is a global variable. And is assigned an undefined when it gets hosted.
Then we start running or executing our code during the execution phase.
The very first step is line 17, where we assign false to is valid. So in the memory space we change undefined to now false.
The second step is line 18, where we run one, we invoke the function and a new execution context is created on top of the stack.
If we can think about it like this, we just created a new execution context.
The first step is, well, we go into the function where we have the variable isValid that will be put into the new execution context.
That is, this variable will be put in the local environment or the variable environment.
And then we run function too. So a new execution context is created. And on top of the stack we add two.
So now we go into the world of two and in the two world, we have a new variable that's being declared initially, it's undefined.

So each of these worlds carry information or variables and data that they have access to.
And when we finish executing the functions, it's get popped off from the stack and memory space for is valid is also gone.

(And then finally, once everything finishes its works, all the memory is being removed from our program.)
And by the way, when I say store information, some of this information can be on the actual call stack
or the execution context. Remember, this is just a call stack, or it can have a reference to somewhere in the heap, in the memory heap that perhaps we might have an object.


- Each execution context has its own variable environment.
- Parameters are treated just like local variables that gets stored in variable environments.