Every time we create a function, we create a new function execution context which has its own variable environment.

- Any time I see a block of code that is these curly brackets {}, it's going to create a new world, a new environment, which is called block scope. 
Block scoping means declaring a variable not just inside a function, but around any curly brackets, like if statements or loops.

When we declare a variables globally in each file, everything gets bunched up together. Everything is on the same global execution context and they overwrite each other if there's any duplicates.

# Immediately invoked function expression.

The idea was using this pattern we can place all library code inside of local scope to avoid any namespace collisions.

The first thing we're doing is we're saying with this brackets, Hey, this isn't a function declaration, it's a function expression. And because the JavaScript engine wants the function keyword as the first item on the line. Instead it's going to see these brackets. So this automatically makes it into a function expression.

What if I use a function declaration and call it immediately afterwards? We will get a syntax error. You can't really call a function declaration immediately afterwards.
And all of the variables created inside over IIFE are going to be scoped. So it's only going to be available inside this IIFE but not outside.

An immediately invoked function expression simply allows us to call immediately as JavaScript is executing. It's going to create a new variable environment, a new execution context. That's going to have our own variable scope.
It enables us to attach private data to a function and it creates a fresh environment for us so that we don't pollute our global execution context.