## Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)

In order to keep a website and its users secure from the security risks  the use of CORS is recommended.
CORS, also known as Cross-Origin Resource Sharing, allows resources such as JavaScript and web fonts to be loaded from domains other than the origin parent domain.These days, a web page commonly loads images, stylesheets, scripts, etc. from other domains. Although, a few years ago due to security reasons, web fonts and AJAX (XML HTTP Requests) were normally restricted to the same-origin policy which restricted their use between domains. Now however, with the use of CORS, the browser and server can communicate to determine whether it is safe to allow a cross-origin request.
CORS is what allows a client to make a cross-origin request to a server. Cross-origin meaning, getting information from another domain that is not the domain where the request came from. The server from which you made a request to will either accept or deny your request based on HTTP headers, which will then tell you if your origin is permitted or not. Depending on the request, if the request is simple, like a get request, then the headers are automatically set by the user-agent. If the request was a preflight request, then the browser will send the OPTIONS method with the request to determine if that request is permitted. Regardless of the type of request made, CORS follows a same-origin policy, which allows only specific origins to make any request to the server, unless specific CORS headers are specified.

The behavior you are observing is the effect of browsers' CORS implementation.

Before CORS became standardized there was no way to call an API endpoint under a different domain for security reasons. This was (and to some degree still is) blocked by the Same-Origin Policy.

CORS is a mechanism that aims to allow requests made on behalf of you and at the same time block some requests made by rogue JS and is triggered whenever you are making an HTTP request to:

a different domain (eg. site at example.com calls api.com)
a different sub domain (eg. site at example.com calls api.example.com)
a different port (eg. site at example.com calls example.com:3001)
a different protocol (eg. site at https://example.com calls http://example.com)

This mechanism prevents attackers that plant scripts on various websites (eg. in ads displayed via Google Ads) to make an AJAX call to www.yourbank.com and in case you were logged in making a transaction using *your* credentials.

If the server does not respond with specific headers to a “simple” GET or POST request — it will still be send, the data still received but the browser will not allow JavaScript to access the response.

- CORS uses a few HTTP headers — both in request and response — but the ones you must understand in order to be able to continue working are:

1.  Access-Control-Allow-Origin
This header is meant to be returned by the server, and indicate what client-domains are allowed to access its resources. The value can be:

* — allow any domain
a fully qualified domain name (eg. https://example.com)

If you require the client to pass authentication headers (e.g. cookies) the value can not be * — it must be a fully qualified domain!

2. Access-Control-Allow-Credentials
This header is only required to be present in the response if your server supports authentication via cookies. The only valid value for this case is true.

3. Access-Control-Allow-Headers
Provides a comma separated list of request header values the server is willing to support. If you use custom headers (eg. x-authentication-token you need to return it in this ACA header response to OPTIONS call, otherwise the request will be blocked.

4. Access-Control-Expose-Headers
Similarly, this response should contain a list of headers that will be present in the actual response to the call and should be made available to the client. All other headers will be restricted.

5. Access-Control-Allow-Methods
A comma separated list of HTTP request type verbs (eg. GET, POST) which the server is willing to support.

6. Origin
This header is part of the request that the client is making, and will contain the domain from which the application is started. For security reasons browsers will not allow you to overwrite this value.

- How to fix the CORS “error”?
You have to understand that the CORS behavior is not an error — it’s a mechanism that’s working as expected in order to protect your users, you, or the site you’re calling.