If you’re a developer, chances are that you’ve heard of cross-site scripting. Cross-site scripting, commonly known as XSS, is one of the top 10 most common web security vulnerabilities according to OWASP. Cross-site scripting continues to be a major problem in many web applications, and it can result in some serious problems. As a developer, it’s important to know what XSS is and to be aware of it, but it’s even more important to know how to prevent it. Cybersecurity isn’t just for security specialists, it’s for everyone.

Today, I’m going to give you an introduction to XSS. Specifically, I’m going to cover:

1. What XSS is, and the 3 types of XSS
2. Why XSS matters
3. How to prevent XSS in your web applications

### What is XSS?

Cross-site scripting occurs when attackers or malicious users can manipulate a web site or web application to return malicious JavaScript to users. When this malicious JavaScript is executed in the user’s browser, all of the user’s interactions with the site (including but not limited to authentication and payment) can be compromised by the attacker.

There are 3 primary types of cross-site scripting:

- DOM-based XSS
This type of XSS occurs when user input is manipulated in an unsafe way in the DOM (Document Object Map) by JavaScript. For example, this can occur if you were to read a value from a form, and then use JavaScript to write it back out to the DOM. If an attacker can control the input to that form, then they can control the script that will be executed. Common sources of DOM-based XSS include the eval() function and the innerHTML attribute, and attacks are commonly executed through the URL. PortSwigger has a great article on this. I've included an example below:

const username = document.getElementById('username_input');
const username_box = document.getElementById('username_box');
user_name_box.innerHTML = username;
To exploit this vulnerability, you could insert a malicious script into the input that would be executed:

<script>window.alert("Cross site scripting has occurred!");</script>

- Reflected XSS

Reflected XSS is similar to DOM-based XSS: it occurs when the web server receives an HTTP request, and “reflects” information from the request back into the response in an unsafe manner. An example would be where the server will place the requested application route/URL in the page that is served back to the user. An attacker can construct a URL with a malicious route that contains JavaScript, such that if a user visits the link, the script will execute.

Malicious URLs containing cross-site scripting are commonly used as social engineering helpers in phishing emails or malicious links online.

Here’s an example — given a route that will 404,

GET https://example.com/route/that/will/404
a vulnerable server might generate the response like so:

<h1>404</h1>
<p> Error: route "/route/that/will/404 was not found on the server</p>
An attacker could exploit this by constructing a URL like this:

https://example.com//route/that/will/404/<script>alert('XSS!');
When the user loads the page, the URL will be templated into the page, the script tags will be interpreted as HTML, and the malicious script will execute. PortSwigger has a great article on this as well.

- Stored XSS

Stored XSS occurs when user-created data is stored in a database or other persistent storage and is then loaded into a page. Common examples of types of applications that do this include forums, comment plugins, and similar applications. Stored XSS is particularly dangerous when the stored content is displayed to many or all users of the application, because then one user can compromise the site for any user that visits it, without requiring that they click on a specific link.

For example, suppose that a forum thread’s posts are stored in a database and that they’re loaded whenever someone visits the thread and displayed. A malicious user could leave a comment that contains malicious JavaScript between <script></script> tags in their post, and then the script would execute in the browser of any user that visits the page.

For example, their post in the threat might look something like this: