# Data Structures

To understand data structures, we must first understand data. In every programming language, we have some data types. In some programming languages, we have to explicitly express the data type by using keywords like `int`, `float`, `bool`, `char` etc. We might not see those in languages like Python and JavaScript but we still have those.Just that they are hidden from the programmer’s eyes. The interpreter handles them for us, and this behavior is counted in feature of the language.

## Primitive Data Types and Memory

We must understand that for every data type the operating system allocated a specific amount of memory in RAM. 

## Data Structure and Why We Study Them

Data structures are different from the primitive data types, but they are similar to them in the sense that it holds (structures) same data into certain predefined manners.
When we study data structure and algorithm, we are talking (and concern) about space (RAM) and processing (CPU) efficiency. Both processing power and memory are finite. So we need to keep things optimized so that it takes the least amount of space and processing time.

1. Array

- An array is fundamentally a list of similar values.
- Elements of an array are stored in contiguous memory blocks.
- All the elements have to have the same data types.
- Arrays have a fixed length.

2. Linked List

- Unlike arrays, a linked list is a data structure, in which the elements are not stored at contiguous memory locations.
- In a linked list data structure, we generally have a payload variable, one or two pointer variables that point to the next element in the list.
- Being not stored in contiguous memory, it gives flexibility to allocated memory anywhere in RAM. Which is beneficial and can leverage available space smartly than arrays.
- Variations of the Linked list are singly liked list, doubly linked list, circular linked list. Singly-linked list only has one pointer to the next element but the doubly linked list has a pointer to the next as well as the previous element.
- The circular linked list is used when scheduling jobs for the processor, if one job is waiting for IO or network resource, the next jobs come in.


3. Queue

- Queue is a data structure that can be related to a queue of students in a morning assembly. If entire queue has to go to the class, the first student in the queue has to move first; then follows the other students.
- Similarly, in the queue, we can add data to the last of the queue and remove it from the beginning.
- Queues are also called FIFO (First In First Out) data structure. As seen from the perspective of the element (data), the data first gets in, then the first data gets out.
- There have been software written just to manage task queues, which are highly used in distributed computing. RabbitMQ is one such example I have seen in the wild.

4. Stack

Stack can be related to a stack of plates, to first add something to a stack you put the element at the top, when removing, you remove from the top. If you have to access the n-1 element, you have to first access the all the intermediate elements.


- Non-Linear Data Structures
1. Graph
2. Tree

## Operations of Data Structures

There are some generic operations we could do on a number of data structures. Let’s look at them one by one.

1. Add/Insert/Push/Enqueue

- We can add a new item to an array of predefined length, we simply call them inserting. Push terminology is generally used when we add to the last of a data structure, like in stacks.
- There can be multiple variations of the insert: add, addFirst, addLast, addByIndex
- Variations depend upon the nature of data structure. Like, you may insert at first of a linked list or array, but you may not in a stack.

2. Get/Access
- Variations can include: getByIndex.
- You can’t get by index in a linked list.

3. Search/Traverse
- Searching could be different depending on the algorithm we use. We can search an array in a linear fashion, but we can also use something called binary search where we eliminate half of the array by bisecting the array depending on the value we are searching for.
- The prerequisite for binary search is the data structures has to be sorted.

4. Remove/Delete/Pop/Dequeue

- When we remove an element from last of an structure, we call it popping. In case of queues, it’s called dequeue.
- Variations may include: deleteFirst, deleteLast, deleteByIndex

5. Modify/Edit/Update
- There is certain time taken by each of the operations, which I will discuss in a post where I discuss algorithms.
- Where to Learn and Practice Data Structures
- I am by no means a guru of DSA, but I have recently come up across this resource by freeCoceCamp.


Finally, this is not directly related to DSA, but having a Math background is always good and helps us in analytical thinking. For sake of that, if you don’t have a mathematical background, I would recommend solving problems from [Project Euler](https://projecteuler.net/archives). Going through the process of solving the problem will force you to look for a better-optimized alternative which can only be done by researching on the topic.

