### Liskov Substitution

A good design satisfies the rule that it's possible to replace objects of some superclass S with objects of any subclass of S without altering any of the provable properties of that program. That is to say without breaking the program.

The idea is that the behavior of a subclass should be as correct as the behavior of the superclass. 

If S is a subtype of T, then objects of type T in a program may be replaced with objects of type S without altering any of the desirable properties of that program.

When a child Class cannot perform the same actions as its parent Class, this can cause bugs.

If you have a Class and create another Class from it, it becomes a parent and the new Class becomes a child. The child Class should be able to do everything the parent Class can do. This process is called Inheritance.

The child Class should be able to process the same requests and deliver the same result as the parent Class or it could deliver a result that is of the same type.

If the child Class doesn’t meet these requirements, it means the child Class is changed completely and violates this principle.

For example, if I needed to create several readers for several distinct file types, I can define them as subclasses of this abstract superclass. Note that the Liskov substitution principle doesn't specifically mention abstract classes.

- Note that the Liskov substitution principle doesn't specifically mention abstract classes. Since abstract classes don't do much, it's difficult to take the Liskov substitution principle literally.
It's common to apply Liskov substitution to each concrete subclass that implements the abstraction.

Each subclass of this abstract reader class must start with these methods and have the same general semantics.
 
- The idea behind this design pattern is to create a reader object built from one of the subclasses of the abstract reader class and the choice of which of the available subclasses can be based on, for example, command line arguments, or configuration file, or as shown here the suffix of the path.

- early binding

Another common phrase for this is late binding. 
Contrasted with the idea of early binding where a file parsing algorithm would be chosen when we write the code, any change would require modifying the whole application. And modify modifications can have destructive ripples to other other classes. 

- late binding

Late binding means the file parsing algorithm is selected at runtime when the file name is presented to the application. 

The Liskov substitution principle suggests that a subclass shares the same interface as its superclass. The advantage of late binding is flexibility. Decision are put off until the actual input file name is known. This design also fits the open/closed principle. Something I'll talk about later. When the classes are the same, it's easy to tell that substitution is possible. For subclasses that add features, however, the substitution can be a little more complicated to detect. Python gives me a number of implementation choices. And I need to choose carefully among them.

- Goal

This principle aims to enforce consistency so that the parent Class or its child Class can be used in the same way without any errors.


## Interface variations

- I want to look at applying the Liskov substitution principle, in the cases where the subclasses do not match the superclass very well. 
Sometimes it's necessary to rethink the design to better align the subclass superclass relationship.
And in other cases, it can help to apply the interface segregation principle, and refactor the definitions.
A document in markdown format can contain tables of values. A table is very much like a CSV document, it has columns and rows. However, a markdown document may be a whole chapter of a book, which means there may be more than one table.
This means the read method needs a parameter to select a specific table from a larger markdown document.
But if we try to introduce an additional parameter to the read method, we can create a Liskov substitution problem. 

There are two common strategies for dealing with classes that aren't directly substitutable but seems like they should be.
- One choice is to rethink the collaboration. Is the distinction really necessary? Does the design really require this parameter?
- The other choice is to refactor the design. Perhaps the new method can be pushed up the class hierarchy into a superclass. This would restore Liskov substitution.
- A third approach is to add features by expanding the interface.

Python gives us a number of alternatives. I can define additional methods to set the additional values required by an odd or unusual subclass. This is sometimes called a fluent interface. An alternative is to add parameters that have default values, making them optional for classes that don't need them.
The default parameter path is so common in Python, a lot of people think of it first. 


### What is an example of Python's Duck Typing Principle?
```js
class X:
    def meth(self, a):
        return 2*a

class Y:
    def meth(self, a):
        return a+a

```

These two classes have the same interface, and can be used interchangeably, but they don't have a common superclass.
Correct

Duck Typing is a unique feature of Python. It permits classes with no formal superclass-subclass relationship to be used in place of each other. It allows substitution without being part of a class hierarchy.