## Interface Segregation


The Interface Segregation Principle says no client should be forced to depend on methods it does not use. Stated more positively, 
- a client should depend on the smallest set of interface features, 
- the fewest methods, the fewest attributes. A class needs to be designed so that collaborators have the narrowest interface.
Clients should not be forced to depend on methods that they do not use.

When a Class is required to perform actions that are not useful, it is wasteful and may produce unexpected bugs if the Class does not have the ability to perform those actions.

A Class should perform only actions that are needed to fulfil its role. Any other action should be removed completely or moved somewhere else if it might be used by another Class in the future.

If a class has too many methods, the client code is then bound to methods it doesn't need. Because of Python's flexibility, it's easy to ignore this principle. In compiled languages, however, the cost of recompilation can make this principle more urgent than it is in Python.

The explicit goal is to isolate ripples of change. If we add a new file format, we don't want to rewrite the application. In particular, the ultimate client, the main function, should reflect the simplicity of read, analyze, and report. Based on this view, I can split my single awkward class into three separate classes, each of which is isolated from the others.

This principle aims at splitting a set of actions into smaller sets so that a Class executes ONLY the set of actions it requires.

- ISP minimizes the interface upon which other components depend.

This principle is similar to single responsibility. 

```js
enum Route {
  ABOUT='about_page',
  HOME='home_page',
}

interface UrlParser {
  parseUrl: (url) => void;
  addQueryParams: (params: Record<string, string>) => void;
}

interface Router {
  navigate: (route: Route) => void;
  attachEventListeners: () => void;
}

interface UrlPreparer {
  prepareUrlForClient: (url: string) => void;
}

class ServerRouter implements UrlParser, UrlPreparer {
  parseUrl(url): void {}
  addQueryParams(params: Record<string, string>): void {}
  prepareUrlForClient(url: string): void {}
}

class ClientRouter implements Router, UrlParser {
  addQueryParams(params: Record<string, string>): void {}
  parseUrl(url): void {}
  attachEventListeners(): void {}
  navigate(route: Route): void {}
}
```