In Python, everything is an object, even classes themselves or functions. It can look strange at the beginning so, don't worry if you feel confused. Right now, you should just note and remember it.

```py
a = 10

def foo():
pass    

class Bar:
pass
   
print(type(a))
print(type(foo))
print(type(Bar))
```

As you know, everything is an object in Python, including classes and functions. That means you can invoke a class or function name as a variable and send it as a parameter to another function.

That’s why you used the built-in function type for getting a type of our objects. You will see in the console:

## Overview of Standard Data Types

### Numeric

Numeric is the data that has a numeric value. There are three different types in Python: integer, floating-point number, and complex number. Also, Boolean is a subtype of an integer. Integer type allows you to work with positive or negative whole numbers. Float type provides floating-point representation. Complex is specified as (real part) + (imaginary part), for example - 4+5j.

```py
a = 10
b = 10.5
c = 8+3j
print(type(a))
print(type(b))
print(type(c))
```
### string

String is a text sequence of character data.

```py
print(type("""Three double quotes"""))
print(type('''Three single quotes'''))
print(type('A'))
print(type("Hello"))
```

But you can't change a string value:
```py
my_str[1] = "!"
```
 #### methods of string

```py
## upper
my_str = "Hello-world"
print(my_str.upper())
print(my_str.lower())

## split
my_str = "Hello-world"
for i in my_str.split("-"):
    print(i)

## find
my_str = "Hello-world"
print(my_str.find("world"))

## strip
my_str = " Hello-world "
print(my_str.strip())

## replace

string = string.replace('##TEMP##', "'")
 ```
### list

List is a sequence of the elements inside square brackets [ ], separated by commas. The number and type of list elements are not limited.

Lists in Python are ordered mutable sequences, like arrays in other languages but dynamically sized. List items can be of any data type.

- list methods

```py

some_numbers = [11, 5, 16, 28, 5334, 44.7, 90.6, 1, 3, 9]
some_numbers.sort()
print(some_numbers)

#
print(len(some_numbers))

#
some_list = [1, 2, 3]
some_str = "abc"
some_list.extend(some_str)
print(some_list)

#
x = 1
some_list = [1, 2, 3, 2, 1, 1]
print(some_list.count(x))

#
my_stack = [1, 2, 3]
my_stack.append(4)
my_stack.append(5)
print(my_stack.pop())
print(my_stack.pop())
print(my_stack)
```
in order to return str list we can do this way

```py
from typing import List, Tuple

def sort_unique_elements(str_list: Tuple[str]) -> List[str]:
    colors = list(set(uni))
    colors.sort()
    return colors

```
### Tuple

Tuple is another type of sequence in Python. It looks like a list but is enclosed in parentheses ( ) instead of square brackets [ ]. But there is sufficient internal deference from the list, and you will see it later.

Generally, the tuple data type has the same characteristics as the list data type. It is ordered, can contain any other data types, and can be nested to an arbitrary depth. The items of tuples can also be accessed by index.

But there is one significant difference—tuples are immutable. It means that you cannot change the tuple after it has been instantiated. In Python, the tuple data type is presented by the class tuple.


```py
my_tuple = (22, 89, True, False)
print(type(my_tuple))

my_colors = "Red", "Green", "Yellow", "White", "Black"
print(type(my_colors))
```

- Unpacking Operation
Let's take a look at the example:

```py
(a, b, c) = (40, 56.6, 90)
print(a, b, c)
```
- Packing Operation

```py
a, b, c = 40, 56.6, 90
```
- Swapping Two Values with Unpacking and Packing

```py
b, a = a, b
print(a, b)
```

### Set
Set is an unordered collection of exclusive items (no duplicates) separated by commas inside {}.

```py
our_set = {4, 3, 6.6, "Hello"}
print(type(our_set))
```

### Dictionary

#### Mutable and Immutable Objects

1. In Python, some objects can change after their creation. They are called mutable objects. For example, objects whose type is a list or dictionary are mutable.
2. Conversely immutable objects can't change after creation. Examples of immutable types: integer, float, string, tuple.

### id

In Python, every object has a unique identifier, and you can use another built-in function id() to get it. As you can see in the example below, after changing, the variable a has another id. That means that the variable name stays the same. But after changing, it refers to another object in memory.

```py
a = 1
print(id(a))

a += 2
print(id(a))
```

In another example with the list, the id of the object is the same after appending a new item in a list.

```py
my_list = [1, 2]
print(id(my_list))

my_list.append(3)
print(id(my_list))
```
It is highly recommended you remember the mutable or immutable types because mutable objects can be a reason for complicated mistakes. For example, you can inadvertently change a parameter inside a function, which will affect the value outside the function. This can be unexpected and confusing.

Additional information about this topic you will see later.

### while
With the while loop, you can also use the else operator to run some code once when the condition is no longer True.

```py
x = 1
while x < 5:
     print(x)
     x += 1
else:
     print("Loop was stopped at:")
     print(x)
```

### for
In Python, the for operator is designed to use sequences and collections. That's why you can use the built-in function range that generates a sequence of numbers. And the loop iterates with each item from this sequence.
And please note that continue, break, and else operators work the same way as in the while loop. So, you can simplify the code even more:


```py
x = int(input("Input integer number: "))

for div in range(2, x):
     if not x % div:
            print("Not prime")
            break
else:
     print("Prime")
```

### Set

A set is another collection data type in Python. Sets are mutable and dynamic like lists. But they are unordered, duplicates are not allowed, and can contain only hashable objects.

```py


my_set = set((1, 113.5, True, "Some string"))

## Also, you can initiate a set using curly braces:

my_set = {1, 113.5, True, "Some string"}

```

Sets are iterable but do not record element position or order of insertion. Accordingly, sets do not support indexing, slicing, or other sequence-like behavior.

You can iterate over the elements of sets with a for loop just as you would with lists or tuples.

```py
for item in my_set:
    print(item)
```


### Hashable Objects

Let's talk about hashable objects. As you remember, everything in Python is an object. So, an object in Python can be considered hashable if the class of this object implements a few special methods that allow getting a hash value.

All immutable types in Python are also hashable. However, some custom types can be mutable and hashable at one time. It depends on the implementation of their classes.

If the object is hashable, you can use a special built-in function hash to get the hash value for the object:


```py
some_tuple = (1, 2, 3)
print(hash(some_tuple)) # 529344067295497451

some_list = ["a", "b", "c"]
print(hash(some_list)) # TypeError: unhashable type: 'list'
```

Set operations in Python can be performed in two different ways: by operators or methods. In this lesson, only the most common will be considered. Also, the differences between a method and an operator will be highlighted.

The first set operation union, with operator:

```py
# ex 1
s1 = {"a", "d", "h"}
s2 = {"n", "b", "c", "d"}
s3 = {"c", "d"}
union = s1 | s2 | s3
print(union) # {'h', 'a', 'n', 'b', 'd', 'c'}

# ex 2

s1 = {"a", "d", "h"}
s2 = {"n", "b", "c", "d"}
s3 = {"c", "d"}
union = s1.union(s2, s3)
print(union)


```

Next set operation intersection, with operator:

```py
# ex 1
s1 = {"a", "d", "h"}
s2 = {"n", "b", "c", "d", "a"}
s3 = {"n", "a", "d"}
my_intersection = s1 & s2 & s3
print(my_intersection)

## ex 2
s1 = {"a", "d", "h"}
s2 = {"n", "b", "c", "d", "a"}
s3 = {"n", "a", "d"}
my_intersection = s1.intersection(s2, s3)
print(my_intersection)

```

And the third set operation difference, with operator:

```py
# ex 1
s1 = {"a", "d", "h", "c", "j"}
s2 = {"n", "b", "c", "d", "a"}
s3 = {"n", "a", "d"}
my_difference = s1 - s2 - s3
print(my_difference)

# ex 2
s1 = {"a", "d", "h", "c", "j"}
s2 = {"n", "b", "c", "d", "a"}
s3 = {"n", "a", "d"}
my_difference = s1.difference(s2, s3)
print(my_difference)

```
As you can see from the examples above, the results are similar for operators and methods when working only with sets. But there is a difference when you need to work with any iterable type as an argument, for example, sets and lists.

The operator works only with sets.

```py
s1 = {"a", "d", "h"}
s2 = {"n", "b", "c", "d"}
s3 = ["c", "d"]
union = s1 | s2 | s3
```

The method can take any iterable type as an argument

```py
s1 = {"a", "d", "h"}
s2 = {"n", "b", "c", "d"}
s3 = ["c", "d"]
union = s1.union(s2, s3)
print(union)
```

#### set methods

```py
# update

s1 = {"a", "b", "k"}
s2 = {"a", "d", "h"}
s3 = {"n", "b", "d"}

s1.update(s2, s3)
print(s1)

## remove

s1 = {"a", "d", "h"}
s1.add("some string")
s1.remove("a")
print(s1)

## clear

s1.clear()
print(s1)
```

## dictionary
A dictionary is a Python implementation of a data structure, commonly known as a hash table or associative array, that will be discussed in detail in the lesson later.

A dictionary is an associative array where arbitrary keys are mapped to values. It’s a mutable data type and may contain other data types and other dictionaries as a value.

- A dictionary is presented with class dict. There are two ways to create a dictionary.

```py
d = {
    "name": "Filip",
    "age": 32,
    "is_registered": False,
    "rate": 12.5,
    "total_score": 200,
    "linked_ids": [1, 45, 98]
}
print(type(d))


# 2

d2 = dict([(1, "foo"), (10, "bar")])
print(d2)
```

- methods` access, update, remove

- items
The items() method returns the iterable object dict_items where each element is a tuple of the form (key, value):

```py
for pair in d.items():
    print(pair)
```
- keys, values

```py
The keys() method returns a dict_keys object which contains keys from a dictionary and the values() method returns dict_values object with values of a dictionary. 
```

- update
The update() method takes another dictionary or some collection of key-value pairs as an argument and updates all matching pairs in the original dictionary and adds key-value pairs for keys that don’t exist in the original dictionary:
