## "==" And "is" Operators

```py
x = (1, 2, 3)
y = (1, 2, 3)
print(x == y)
```
The result is expectable. During the checking, Python compares each item from both tuples.
But in fact, there is only one tuple, only one object in memory. You can check it with the built-in function id:

```py
print(id(x), id(y))
Result
2005905318592 2005905318592
```

As you can see, both variables are connected with the same object in the memory—the identification number is the same.

It's because a tuple is an immutable type. And Python uses this approach as part of memory management, not only with tuples. As a result, the Python interpreter does not create a duplicate of the tuple in memory for optimizing purposes.

You can use the construction id(x) == id(y) to check whether two variables are connected with one object or not.

But it is more convenient to use a special operator is for this purpose. So let's review examples of using this operator with tuples and lists.

A list is a mutable type. And for this reason, lists are equal but not connected with the same object in memory.

```py
a = [1, 2, 3]
b = [1, 2, 3]
print(a == b) # TRUE
print(id(a), id(b))
print(a is b) # FALSE
```

As was said before, it’s done for memory management. But immutable objects with the same value are not always the same object in memory. 

```PY
x = 2 ** 100
y = 2 ** 100
print(x == y)
print(id(x), id(y))
print(x is y)

## 2
x = (1, 2, "python" * 1000)
y = (1, 2, "python" * 1000)
print(x == y)
print(id(x), id(y))
print(x is y)
```

### id

In Python, every object has a unique identifier, and you can use another built-in function id() to get it. As you can see in the example below, after changing, the variable a has another id. That means that the variable name stays the same. But after changing, it refers to another object in memory.

```py
a = 1
print(id(a))

a += 2
print(id(a))
```

In another example with the list, the id of the object is the same after appending a new item in a list.

```py
my_list = [1, 2]
print(id(my_list))

my_list.append(3)
print(id(my_list))
```
It is highly recommended you remember the mutable or immutable types because mutable objects can be a reason for complicated mistakes. For example, you can inadvertently change a parameter inside a function, which will affect the value outside the function. This can be unexpected and confusing.

Additional information about this topic you will see later.

### while
With the while loop, you can also use the else operator to run some code once when the condition is no longer True.

```py
x = 1
while x < 5:
     print(x)
     x += 1
else:
     print("Loop was stopped at:")
     print(x)
```

### for
In Python, the for operator is designed to use sequences and collections. That's why you can use the built-in function range that generates a sequence of numbers. And the loop iterates with each item from this sequence.
And please note that continue, break, and else operators work the same way as in the while loop. So, you can simplify the code even more:


```py
x = int(input("Input integer number: "))

for div in range(2, x):
     if not x % div:
            print("Not prime")
            break
else:
     print("Prime")
```
