
And in JavaScript, we have to distinctions.
We have the primitive types and reference types.

## Primitive and pass by value

So what is a primitive type?
It's a data that only represents a single value. A variable of a primitive type directly contains the value of that type.

Primitive types are immutable. It means that we can't really change them in order to change them.
When I assign variable a to 5 somewhere in memory, variable a is going to contain and reference the value 5.
If I do variable b equals to 10, again same thing and they(in this case 5 and 10) don't really know of each other's existence. This is what we call pass by value.

In order to change what that 5 value is, we have to literally move it from memory and create something new like a equals 7. 
Pass by value simply means we copy the value and we create that value somewhere else in memory.

## Reference 
A non primitive type that doesn't contain the actual value directly.
For example object doesn't actually contain the value directly. Instead, it has a reference similar to a pointer to somewhere in memory that the object is held.
Standard built in objects come with the language. It's part of the language.
- Many things that we interact with directly in JavaScript, such as strings, numbers and booleans, which are primitive and not objects, get a little bit complicated by the fact that these primitives have object wrappers like string or number.

```js
true.toString()
```
In this example it silently creates a wrapper object around this.
When we try to access a property on a primitive, behind the scenes it's wrapping almost like this
```js
Boolean(true).toString()
```
so Boolean has access toString() and then finally returns true.
- But not everything in JavaScript is an object.

## pass by reference
Objects, on the other hand, are what we call pass by reference.

## Shallow and Deep clone
It clone the first level. we can only clone the first layer. Deep clone we can do by JSON, structuredClone.