Do all languages have type coercion?
Yes, they do, because we always need to convert types between programs to do things.
In memory, different types look completely different than what we type. 

1. In JavaScript type coercion happens when you use the double equal. Double equal sign simply means compare the two values and if they have different types, try to coerce one into the same type.
Three equals in JavaScript means compare two values, but don't try and coerce the values.

2. Type coercion happens when we write an if statement. Because under the hood of js it tries to convert everything in boolean.

3. Object.is

There is a special built-in method Object.is that compares values like ===, but is more reliable for two edge cases:

It works with NaN: Object.is(NaN, NaN) === true, that’s a good thing.
Values 0 and -0 are different: Object.is(0, -0) === false, technically that’s correct, because internally the number has a sign bit that may be different even if all other bits are zeroes.
In all other cases, Object.is(a, b) is the same as a === b.

We mention Object.is here, because it’s often used in JavaScript specification. When an internal algorithm needs to compare two values for being exactly the same, it uses Object.is (internally called SameValue).


```js
console.log(false == "0"); // 0 0
console.log(false == []); // false => 0, [] => "", "" => 0 0==0
console.log(false == {}); 
console.log("" == 0); 
console.log("" == []); 
console.log("" == {}); 
console.log(0 == []); 
console.log(0 == {}); 
console.log(0 == null); 
```
Number has high priority. When we compare operands with each other using for example 2 equal, JS engine tries to convert everything in Number. 

```js
let a = new Number(5)
let b = 5
console.log(a == b) //true
```