Languages can defer dynamically typed and statically typed.

We see over here that JavaScript is a dynamically typed to language.
A dynamically typed language allows us to not have to say what type of that variable is going to be.

So with a statically typed language, we have to declare the variables explicitly before using them.

Dynamically typed languages are not bound to this constraint. They're not bound to a particular type.
And in dynamically typed languages type checking is done during runtime.

While the user is actually browsing through the website JavaScript is running and being compiled in the background.

We're able to use dynamically typed languages that can assign anything to any variable, and you're not going to be caught.

The main thing of statically typed languages is that you're going to get less bugs in production because this will never make it into production.

- Static types usually prevent bugs and help keep errors from happening.
- Dynamic typing allows you to be more flexible and write software faster.
- TypeScript allows us to make JavaScript to behave like a statically typed language.

## strong week 

JavaScript is a dynamic language or dynamically typed language that is weakly typed. It means we can do actions like this.
1 + "m"

## TypeScript

There's actually many ways that we can introduce static typing to JavaScript.
There's tools like flow, Elm, Reason ML and obviously TypeScript.
For example, reason ML and flow were created by Facebook and the developers of Facebook and TypeScript by the developers of Microsoft.

But they all do the same thing. They all try and make JavaScript a statically typed language.

TypeScript differs from flow because TypeScript has its own compiler. It's not like flow that depends on Babel to remove all this extra code before splitting it into JavaScript that we want to send to the front end.