## communication with computer
The computer only understands ones and zeros at the end of the day. 
The computer doesn't really know what Js is.
That is the JS Engine.
By having a JS engine right over here, it allows you to give this machine the JS file and this machine is going to understand this file and tell the computer what to do to display pictures.
In a sense, you just created a translator so you can communicate with somebody that doesn't know your language. And this special engine called the JS engine understands JS.
And our computer understands us because of this JS engine. 

## Engines

There are a ton of engines and they're called ecma script engines.
So any time we use an engine, we're able to give it a JS file and this JS file gets understood by the engine, and it allows this engine to communicate and tell the machine, the computer, to do what we ask it to do with JS. 
ENgines are written by programmers.

## V8

V8 is written by C++. 
2008 marked a really important moment in history when it comes to JS cuz V8 was released by Google. Before then, most browsers used engines that were very basic, which meant that JS was a little bit slow. 
And Google because they're a search engine, they want everybody to use their search engine and they built a browser in order for them to control more of the market. They wrote their own JS engine, so that JS runs very faster on the browser than it's done previously. 
JS engine ne reads our code and then it runs this code. 


The first person who has created the very first JS engine was its creator, Brendan Eich. He created the early version of what became to be known as Spider Monkey, which is what Firefox still uses right now as their JS engine.
And Brendan Eich was the very first person who created the language JS to implement this engine so that you're able to run JS on a browser that previously could only read HTML and CSS.


## Inside the Engine

SO we know that JS engine takes our written JS code and tell the computer to do what we want it to do. 
What does JS engine do?
We give it a JS file. And first, does something called lexical analysis, which breaks the code into something called tokens to identify their meaning so that we know what the code is trying to do. 
And these tokens are formed into what we call an AST(Abstract syntax tree).

astexplorer.net due to this site we can break down the program into different things that are happening. This allows the engine to understand what's going on the program.

And once ends this form(AST), it goes through something called an interpreter, profiler, compiler and we get some sort of code which we're going to talk about later on. 
And this whole engine is going to spit out some code that our CPU on our computers is going to understand to give it instructions. 

Everybody can create its own JS engine, but there is problem. That's cuz if everybody can just create a JS engine, it'll be a total chaos, which is why a script was created. It tells people here is the standard and how you should do things in JS and how it should work and it essentially decides how the language should be standardized. 