## Under the hood of JS engine

Remember we parse the code, we turn it into an abstract syntax tree and then this code initially goes to an interpreter. 

I'm showing you what the V8 engine does.

There's small changes in different engines, but this is probably the best, most optimum way to run the JavaScript engine.

### Bytecode
- Initially the code gets sent to the interpreter and in the V8 engine this is called ignition and it takes this AST and it spits out bytecode.
That's not as low level as machine code, but it's code that is able to be interpreted by the JavaScript engine in order to run our programs.

Now, one thing to note here is that bytecode is not a native machine code.
That is, most computers won't understand this byte code. They might understand machine code, but not byte code.
So with byte code, you need software such as the virtual machine or a JavaScript engine so it can execute it directly.
So that's the first step.

### Profiler
- But then we see over here that there's something called a profiler which is checking out our code. profiler also called a monitor, monitors and watches our code as it runs.
It makes notes on how we can optimize this code, such as how many times it is being run, what types are used, and how we can possibly optimize this.

And using this profiler as the code is running through our interpreter, which tells our browser what to do.

If the same lines of code are run a few times.
We actually pass off some of this code to the compiler or a JIT compiler just in time compiler because as the code is running. The interpreter is going to say, Hey, here's some code for you to optimize.
Passes it off to the compiler. 
And the compiler as the application is running, takes the code and compiles it or modifies it.
So it does what you ask it to, but trying to make optimizations so it runs faster.
And it then replaces the sections where it could be improved of the bytecode with optimized machine code.
So that optimized code is used from that point on instead of the slower bytecode.

So it mixes and matches things and it constantly runs through this loop.
This means that the execution speed of the JavaScript code that we entered into the engine is going to gradually improve.
Because the profiler and the compiler are constantly making updates and changes to our byte code in order to be as efficient as possible.

- So interpreter allows us to run the code right away and the compiler and profiler allows us to optimize this code as we're running.
That's where the name comes from. JIT compiler. And this compiler for V8 engine is called Turbofan.
Now that we know how the engine works underneath the hood, we can write more optimized code, code that the compiler can take and run a faster than our regular JavaScript.

And we also can use this knowledge to make sure that we don't confuse the compiler because the compiler isn't perfect.
It can make mistakes and it can try to optimize code that actually does the opposite.


## JS as a interpreter language

Initially, when JavaScript first came out, you had JavaScript engines such as Spider Monkey created by Brendan Eich that interpreted JavaScript to bytecode, and that engine was able to run inside of our browsers to tell our computers what to do.
But things have evolved now. We don't have just interpreters.
We also use compilers to optimize this code. So this is a common misconception.
When somebody says JavaScript is an interpreted language, yes, there is some truth to it.
But it actually depends on the implementation.
You can make an implementation of JavaScript of the JavaScript engine that perhaps only compiles.
Technically it depends on the implementation. 