## 
In order to help the JavaScript engine, we want to be really, really careful with these.
- eval()
- arguments
- for in
- with
- delete

These things in JavaScript can make our code less optimized.

## Inline caching

Now inline caching does something really interesting.

```js
function findUser(user){
    return `${user.firstName} ${user.lastName}`
}

const userData = {
    firstName: "Satenik",
    lastName: "Karapetyan"
}

fundUSer(userData)
```

Due to inline caching done by the compiler code that executes the same method repeatedly, that is, let's say the find user method or function was being called multiple times.
Well, the compiler can optimize this so that whenever it's looking for the user data, which has first name and last name, it can use something called inline caching.
Where instead of looking up this object every time, finding the key that is first name and last name,
and then the values it will cache or inline cache.

So that find user just becomes this piece of text.
So if we call find user over and over and over, we would just replace that with `found Johnson Jr.`
Because at the end of the day, that's all that the function is doing.

## hidden classes

The other one that is really important for optimizing compiler code is something called hidden classes.

```js
function Animal(x,y){
    this.x = x;
    this.y = y
}
const obj1 = new ANimal(1,4);
const obj1 = new ANimal(4,8);
```
Now a compiler is going to take a look at this and say, all right, we have an animal that we're creating here and we're assigning it to obj1 and obj2.

But if we do something like this

```js
function Animal(x,y){
    this.x = x;
    this.y = y
}
const obj1 = new Animal(1,4);
const obj2 = new Animal(4,8);

obj1.a = 3;
obj1.b = 5;
obj2.a = 7;
obj2.b = 9;

```

That code is actually going to make the compiler run slower or doptimize the code. And that is something called hidden classes.

You want to try and instantiate your object properties in the same order so that hidden classes, which is what the compiler uses underneath the hood to say, Oh, this animal class, this obj1, and obj2 objects have the same hidden class.
That is, they have the same properties.
But as soon as you start introducing things in different orders, it's going to get confused and say, Hmm, they don't have a shared hidden class. They're two separate things.
And internally that's actually going to slow things down.
So one thing you want to do in a situation like this is to assign all properties of an object in its constructor over here.
So that is to add the A and B property in here so that you avoid this issue.
```js
this.a = a;
this.b = b
```
Or making sure that we add things in the same order.

Also, with delete If I delete the property. Well, again, I changed the hidden classes so that they don't match up anymore.

- The more predictable your code is, the better it will be because will have no surprises.