JavaScript is a garbage collected language.

That means when JavaScript allocates memory, let's say within a function, we create an object and that object gets stored somewhere in our memory heap automatically with JavaScript.
When we finish calling the function and let's say we don't need that object anymore, it's going to clean it up for us.
So JavaScript automatically frees up this memory that we no longer use and well collect our garbage just like this.

So only the data that is still useful to us remains so that this way we make sure we don't use up all the memory we have available because as we know, memory is limited.

Now in garbage collected languages like JavaScript, the garbage collector frees memory on the heap and prevents what we call memory leaks.



- we don't have to worry about memory management because this garbage collection is done automatically and it's smart enough to figure out what we need and what we don't.
But again, this is actually a big mistake.
It gives JavaScript developers the false impression that they can choose not to care about memory management.
And there are ways to actually make mistakes where the garbage collection won't actually free up the memory.


In low level languages like C, you control garbage collection and you tell it to remove parts of the memory.
Now, that's very, very dangerous, but it's also the reason that programs like C are extremely fast and memory efficient because you control garbage collection and with that control, you can make it really  optimized.

## Work of GC

So how does garbage collection actually work in JavaScript?
Well, it uses something called "Mach and sweep" algorithm.

So imagine we have an object inside of function.
And once this function is done executing and it's popped off the stack, well, we don't need that object anymore.
So the garbage collector is going to mark and sweep and clean this object from memory.


## memory leaks
That is when the memory gets too big until we reach our maximum size.
Let's create our own memory leak.
```js
const arr = [];
for(let i = 1; i>0; i++){
    arr.push(i)
}
```

we just crashed our browser.

There are three common memory leaks that happened that I want to show you so you can avoid them in your application.
1. The very first one, and this is something that you've heard, that is global variables.
2. Another one is event listeners.
3. Another common one is simply using something like setInterval.
And inside of setInterval you maybe start referencing objects. And these objects in here are going to, well, never be collected by the garbage collector, because this set interval, unless we clear it and stop it, is going to keep running.

So memory leaks are something that we have to be careful of.  

That is when it comes to call stack and memory heap.
Those are two places that JavaScript remembers or stores memory and we have limited use of them.
So for us to write efficient code, we have to be conscious to not have a stack overflow or a memory leak and to manage that memory well.