Well, being single threaded means that only one set of instructions is executed at a time.
It's not doing multiple things.
And the biggest way to check that a language is single threaded is, well, it has only one call stack.
This one call stack allows us to run code one at a time.
We're never running functions in parallel, as you saw.

The stack keeps growing as we push new functions on the stack, and then we pop them one at a time.
And because of this JavaScript is synchronous that is one at a time in order that it appears only one thing can happen at the time.

## Issue With Single Thread

With single threaded synchronous code that JavaScript engine runs, it's going to make it really difficult if we have long running tasks.
Imagine if we have a function that have, let's say, a really big loop that takes 5 seconds to complete.
When that happens, if we just use the JavaScript engine, well, I wouldn't be able to click.
I wouldn't be able to scroll. I wouldn't be able to do anything.
A classic example of this is the alert function.

When we talk about JavaScript, most of the time you're never just using the JavaScript engine, which is synchronous.

We need to introduce the idea of asynchronous code and we're going to talk about what's actually happening behind the scenes, where it's not just the JavaScript engine, that's running our code.
We have something called the JavaScript runtime and as you will see, Node.js will also implement something similar, because in order for us to write code that we can use in this modern day, we need something beyond just the JavaScript engine.