## The problem

Doing Input-Output bound operations such as responding to an Http request, talking to a database, talking to other servers are the areas where a Nodejs application shines. This is because of its single-threaded nature which makes it possible to handle many requests quickly with low system resource consumption. But Doing CPU bound operations like calculating the Fibonacci of a number or checking if a number is prime or not or heavy machine learning stuff is gonna make the application struggle because node only uses a single core of your CPU no matter how many cores you have.

If we are running this heavy CPU bound operation in the context of a web application,the single thread of node will be blocked and hence the webserver won't be able to respond to any request because it is busy calculating our big Fibonacci or something.

Allow me to demonstrate an example of this behavior using an express server.

All examples provided below will be in the context of a web application, but the same logic applies for any kind of nodejs application.

server.js
```js
const express = require("express")
Copy
const app = express()

app.get("/getfibonacci", (req, res) => {
  const startTime = new Date()
  const result = fibonacci(parseInt(req.query.number)) //parseInt is for converting string to number
  const endTime = new Date()
  res.json({
    number: parseInt(req.query.number),
    fibonacci: result,
    time: endTime.getTime() - startTime.getTime() + "ms",
  })
})

const fibonacci = n => {
  if (n <= 1) {
    return 1
  }

  return fibonacci(n - 1) + fibonacci(n - 2)
}

app.listen(3000, () => console.log("listening on port 3000"))
```

We are using simple CPU intensive tasks such as finding Fibonacci here for the sake of simplicity. In a real-case scenario it may be something like compressing a video or doing machine learning operations.

app hanging when large number is given
Here we can see the "testrequest" being blocked and hanged while "getfibonacci"(which takes forever for 50) is being executed.
system-monitor

A single core of the CPU is doing all the work.
Wait, Cant Promises solve this problem?
This may be a stupid doubt but For a brief moment, while I was researching for this article, I thought "Isnt promises supposed to solve this problem?, Isnt promises supposed to unblock stuff by doing things asynchronously?". Well yes, but no.

yesbutnomeme

I found a question on stackoverflow with the same doubt.
Let us take a look to the same problem but with promises (we are going to use a prime or not function this time because using promises in a recursive function can get messy).

serverWithPromises.js
```js
const express = require("express")
Copy
const app = express()

app.get("/isprime", async (req, res) => {
  const startTime = new Date()
  const result = await isPrime(parseInt(req.query.number)) //parseInt is for converting string to number
  const endTime = new Date()
  res.json({
    number: parseInt(req.query.number),
    isprime: result,
    time: endTime.getTime() - startTime.getTime() + "ms",
  })
})

app.get("/testrequest", (req, res) => {
  res.send("I am unblocked now")
})

const isPrime = number => {
  return new Promise(resolve => {
    let isPrime = true
    for (let i = 3; i < number; i++) {
      if (number % i === 0) {
        isPrime = false
        break
      }
    }

    resolve(isPrime)
  })
}

app.listen(3000, () => console.log("listening on port 3000"))
```

app hanging when large number is given
We can see the same result with promises
The reason for this is that even though promises are being run asynchronously the promise executor function(our prime or not function) is called synchronously and will block our app. The reason why promises are glorified in the javascript community as a way to do "asynchronous non-blocking operations" is because they are good at doing jobs that take more time, but not more CPU power. By "doing jobs that take more time" I meant jobs like talking to a database, talking to another server, etc which is 99% of what web servers do. These jobs are not immediate and will take relatively more time. Javascript promises accomplish this by pushing the job to a special queue and listening for an event (like a database has returned with data) to happen and do a function (often referred to as a "callback function") when that event has happened. but hey, won't another thread will be required to listen for that event? , Yes it does. How node manages this queues,events and listening threads internally can be a separate article of itself .

Let us see the asynchronous non-blocking operations in action.

asyncServer.js
```js
const express = require("express")
Copy
const app = express()
const fetch = require("node-fetch") //node-fetch is a library used to make http request in nodejs.

app.get("/calltoslowserver", async (req, res) => {
  const result = await fetch("http://localhost:5000/slowrequest") //fetch returns a promise
  const resJson = await result.json()
  res.json(resJson)
})

app.get("/testrequest", (req, res) => {
  res.send("I am unblocked now")
})

app.listen(4000, () => console.log("listening on port 4000"))
see code on github
slowServer.js

const express = require("express")
Copy
const app = express()

app.get("/slowrequest", (req, res) => {
  setTimeout(() => res.json({ message: "sry i was late" }), 10000) //setTimeout is used to mock a network delay of 10 seconds
})

app.listen(5000, () => console.log("listening on port 5000"))
```


app hanging when large number is given
We can see that every other request is not blocked, even though the call to the slow server is taking too long. This is because the fetch function by node-fetch returns a promise. This single-threaded, non-blocking, asynchronous way of doing things is default in nodejs.

## The solution
Node js provides three solutions for solving this problem

- child processes
- cluster
- worker threads
