1. WHat is a program?

- It has to allocate memory. Otherwise, we wouldn't be able to have variables or even have a file on our computer.
- It also has to parse and execute scripts, which means read and run commands.

V8 engine reads the JavaScript that we write, and changes into machine executable instructions for the browser.
Now the engine consists of two parts a memory heap and a call stack.

## Memory heap
- Memory heap is where the memory allocation happens.
- call stack is where your code is read and executed. It tells you where you are in the program.

With the memory we have limited amount that we can actually have. And memory leaks happen when you have unused memory, such as, let's say we're not using the variable A, but it's still there.
Global variables are bad because if we forget to clean up after ourselves, we fill up this memory heap and eventually the browser will not be able to work.

## Call Stack

that's what reads and executes our scripts. So what the call stack does, it reads the first line console.log. It gets put in this call stack. And then it's executed. 

## Threads

Single threaded means that it has only one call stack. Single threaded means that it has only one call stack.
Now other languages can have multiple stacks and these are called multithreaded.

- Why was JavaScript designed to be single threaded?
Well, running code on a single thread can be quite easy since you don't have to deal with complicated scenarios that arise in multithreaded environment.

## deadlocks

## Synchronous programming

Synchronous programming simply means line one gets executed, then line two gets executed, and then line three gets executed.

```js
console.log(1);
console.log(2);
console.log(3);
```
So this console log 2 doesn't start until console log finishes and console log 3 doesn't start until the above 2 finish because of the call stack.

## Stack Overflow

Stack Overflow is this when a stack is overflowing. This happens when the call stack just gets bigger and bigger until it just doesn't have enough space anymore.

- The JavaScript engine, which is the V8 engine in Chrome, has a memory heap and a call stack.
With synchronous task, if we have one function that takes up a lot of time, it's going to hold up the line.
Synchronous execution is great because it's predictable. But it can get slow.

## Asynchronous JS

In order for JavaScript to run for the JavaScript engine with memory heap and call stack, we need more than just the JavaScript engine.
We need what we call a JavaScript runtime environment.
And JavaScript runtime environment is again part of the browser. It's included in the browsers.
They have something called web APIs, callback queue and an event loop. And as you can see here, setTimeout is part of the web API. It's not technically part of JavaScript.
When we have setTimeout, 
1. in the call stack is being added setTimeout, 
2. The callback is moving to WEB API
3. setTimeout is being removed from call stack
4. After finishing time ticks the callBack is moving to the queue
5. If callStack is empty, event look takes the callBack and push to the callStack

## Recap

JavaScript is a single threaded language that can be non blocking. It has one call stack and it does one thing at a time in order to not block the single thread. It can be asynchronous with callback functions and these callback functions gets run in the background through the callback queue and then the event loop to bring it back into the call stack.