 Functions are special type of objects in JavaScript. It's a callable object. And it's something that is not very common in other languages.

When we add properties on function like this
```js
function foo(){
    return 2
}

foo.age = 12
```

underneath the hood what JavaScript does is it creates a special type of object called a callable object.
and for demonstration it looks like this

```js
let foo = {
    age: 12,
    name: foo, // optional, remember  anonyms functions
    length: undefined,
    (): return 2,
    call,
    apply,
    bind
}
```

## First class citizen 

So those are the three properties that make functions a first class citizen.
1. In JavaScript, we're able to assign to variables these functions.
2. We can pass these functions into arguments and 
3. we can also return functions as values from another function.

Functions are data not only do they perform actions for us, but they're also pieces of data that can be passed around like first class citizens, as if there were JavaScript types.
So anything you can do with other types, you can do with a function.

## HOF
Now, higher order functions are simply a function that can take a function as an argument or a function that returns another function.
That's it.

## Function Expression and Function Declaration 

Functions are values. They can be assigned, copied or declared in any place of the code.
A Function Expression is created when the execution reaches it and is usable only from that moment.
A Function Declaration can be called earlier than it is defined.
The Function Declaration sayHi is created when JavaScript is preparing to start the script and is visible everywhere in it.
In strict mode, when a Function Declaration is within a code block, it’s visible everywhere inside that block. But not outside of it.

