## Functions Should Be Small


## Functions Should Be a Command or a Query—Not Both

Command-Query Separation is a principle that states functions should either “do” something, a command, or “answer” something, a query. If your function is changing the state of an object and returning information about that object—that can be confusing.

The solution is to separate the command from the query, by creating two functions from the original function.

## Functions Should Only Do One Thing

Don’t make your functions multi-task—they only need to do one thing.

## Functions Should Have One Level of Abstraction

Code that does one thing does not have mixed levels of abstraction. This means essential concepts will not be mixed with lower-level details. If you’re writing detailed code right beside high-level code, you’re not following this rule and it’s going to be confusing for other readers of your code. 

## Functions Should Have Descriptive Names

Don’t forget that your code should tell a good story, and good stories use descriptive words—or names in this case. The function name should clearly describe exactly what the function does.

## Functions Should Not Have Side Effects

Side effects are lies in your code. Don’t make your code a liar!
A function should perform the action indicated by its name and that’s it. A side effect is when a function goes beyond the named action and makes other, hidden changes as well. These could be changes to the variables of their own class, system globals, or the arguments being passed into the function.

## Extract Try/Catch Blocks into Functions of Their Own

Error handling counts as “one thing,” so a function that handles errors shouldn’t be responsible for anything else. If the keyword “try” exists in a function, it should be the very first word and there should be nothing afterwards the catch or final blocks.

