

Software is easy to write but hard to manage and maintain. 

- What is the point of software architecture?

1. Minimize human resources required to build and maintain the system. 

Robert C. Martin coined the term single responsibility principle which states “gather together those things that change for the same reason, and separate those things that change for different reasons.”

A microservices architecture takes this same approach and extends it to the loosely coupled services which can be developed, deployed, and maintained independently. Each of these services is responsible for discrete task and can communicate with other services through simple APIs to solve a larger complex business problem.

### Key Benefits of a Microservices Architecture

As the constituent services are small, they can be built by one or more small teams from the beginning separated by service boundaries which make it easier to scale up the development effort if need be.

Once developed, these services can also be deployed independently of each other and hence its easy to identify hot services and scale them independent of whole application. Microservices also offer improved fault isolation whereby in the case of an error in one service the whole application doesn’t necessarily stop functioning. When the error is fixed, it can be deployed only for the respective service instead of redeploying an entire application.

Another advantage which a microservices architecture brings to the table is making it easier to choose the technology stack (programming languages, databases, etc.) which is best suited for the required functionality (service) instead of being required to take a more standardized, one-size-fits-all approach.


It is very important to hide any complexity and implementation details of the service and only expose what is needed by the service’s clients. If unnecessary details are exposed, it becomes very difficult to change the service later as there will be a lot of painstaking work to determine who is relying on the various parts of the service. Additionally, a great deal of flexibility is lost in being able to deploying the service independently.


As you can see in the diagram, here we are taking a service (Service 1) and storing all of the information needed by the service to a database. When another service (Service 2) is created which needs that same data, we access that data directly from the database.

This approach might seem reasonable and logical in certain instances — maybe it’s easy to access data in a SQL database or write data to a SQL database or maybe the APIs needed by Service 2 are not readily available.

As soon as this approach is adopted, control is immediately lost in determining what is hidden and what is not. Later on, if the schema needs to change, the flexibility to make that change is lost, since you won’t know who is using the database and whether the change will break Service 2 or not.

An alternative approach, and I would submit the right way to tackle this, is below:

Service 2 should access Service 1 and avoid going directly to the database, therefore preserving utmost flexibility for various schema changes that may be required. Worrying about other parts of the system is eliminated provided you make sure that tests for exposed APIs pass.

As mentioned, choose the protocols for communication between services carefully.

