
# DRY Principle

DRY stands for Don’t Repeat Yourself. In the book ‘The Pragmatic Programmer’, we can see this definition for DRY:

Every piece of knowledge must have a single, unambiguous, authoritative representation within a system.

This means that you should not have duplicated code. It’s easier to maintain a code that is only in one place, because if you need to change something in the code, you just need to change in one place. Besides that, if you have the same code in two or more places, the chance of this code become different during the time is high, and when this happens it will become an easy way to introduce bugs in your system. Duplicated code also makes the code more complex and unnecessarily larger.

You also should not write ambiguous code. Your classes, your variables, your functions, they should have a specific name, and their name must match their responsibility. If you have a function, you should know what the function does by just reading its name, without being needed to read the code inside of it.

DRY is about the duplication of knowledge, of intent. It’s about expressing
the same thing in two different places, possibly in two totally different ways.

It means that it’s not only about copy and past code — yes, this is also included - but goes beyond that. It‘s also about having different code that does the same thing. Maybe you can have different code in two or more places, but they do the same thing in different ways, this also should be avoided.

```js
enum dayNames {
  Monday = "Monday",
  Tuesday = "Tuesday",
  Wednesday = "Wednesday",
  Thursday = "Thursday",
  Friday = "Friday",
  Saturday = "Saturday",
  Sunday = "Sunday"
}

class Day {
  name: string;
  order: number;

  constructor(name: string, order: number = 0) {
    this.name = name;
    this.order = order;
  }

  setOrder(order: number) : Day {
    this.order = order;
    return this;
  }

}

class Week {

  days: Array<Day> = new Array();

  private addDay(name: string): Day {
    const day = new Day(name);
    const index = this.days.push(day);
    day.setOrder(index)
    return day;
  }

  constructor() {
     for(let dayName in dayNames) {
       this.addDay(dayName);
     }
  }

  listDays() {
    console.log(this.days);
  }

}

const firstWeek = new Week();
firstWeek.listDays();
```
