## Functional Programming in javascript

What is Functional Programming?
In any program there is two core thing data and behavior. Data could be array, object,hashmap etc. Data can be in any form. Behavior is function that perform operation on data. Functional programming says that data and behavior(function) are two different thing. they should be kept separate. It simply says that you pass data to function it will process it and return new object.

Functional programming is all about separation of concerns.It's all about packaging our code into separate chunks so that everything's is well organized in each part of our code.Functional programming says that data and behavior(function) are two different thing. they should be kept separate. The core pillar of functional programming is pure function.

- What are pure function?
A function that follow below point are pure function:

1. Given the same input it will provide the same output no matters how many times we call it
2. It does not modify its outer world that is, it has no side effect. Let's understand with example
```js
function addTwoNumber(num1,num2) {
  return num1 + num2;
}

addTwoNmber(3,4); // will return 7 no matter how many times is called

function multiplyWithCurrentTime(num) {
  return num * new Date().getTime();
}

multiplyWithCurrentTime(3);// will provide new output each time we call the function
```

In above I have created two function removeLastItem and immutablyRemoveLastItem.
The removeLastItem has side effect as it modify outer world variable arr while immutablyRemoveLastItem function has no side effect because it first copy the external variable using concat method and then alter the new array(which it has ownership of) and return it.

```js
// In this example i want to clear out the difference between function with side effect and a function without side effect
let arr = [1,2,3];
function removeLastItem(input) {
  input.pop();
}

removeLastItem(arr); 
console.log(arr); // output [1,2] (this function changes the original variable from [1,2,3] -> [1,2])
// above execution has side effect as it mutate arr which belong to the outside world.

function immutablyRemoveLastItem(input) {
  const newArray = [].concat(input); // concat method copies the value to new variable.
  return newArray.pop();
}

let newArr = [1,2,3];

console.log(immutablyRemoveLastItem(newArr)); // output [1,2]
console.log(newArr); // output [1,2,3] -> the above function does not have side effect as it not modify the orignal input instead it copies
// and alter the copied array.
```

```js
function addTwoNumber(num1,num2) {
  return num1 + num2;
}

addTwoNmber(3,4); // will return 7 no matter how many times is called

function multiplyWithCurrentTime(num) {
  return num * new Date().getTime();
}

multiplyWithCurrentTime(3);// will provide new output each time we call the funciton

```
In above example I have created two function addTwoNumber,multiplyWithCurrentTime. addTwoNumber is pure function because it does not have any side effect and also with same input it will provide same output. multiplyWithCurrentTime is not pure function because with same input it can generate different output depending on current time.

### There are some terms in functional programming let's define them.

1. Referential Transparency

In functional programming, referential transparency is generally defined as the fact that an expression, in a program, may be replaced by its value (or anything having the same value) without changing the result of the program. This implies that methods should always return the same value for a given argument, without having any other effect.
Let's understand it with example
```js
let a = (num1,num2) => {
  return num1+num2;
}

let b = (num) => {
  return num*2;
}

console.log(b(a(3,4))) //output will be 14
// here i can replace a(3,4) expression with value 7 value and this will not effect to the result of the program because its return
// value is 7
// so i can replace  console.log(b(a(3,4))) to console.log(b(7)) as a function is refrencially transparent

let c = (num1,num2) => {
  console.log(`Value of num1:${num1} and value of num2:${num2}`);
  return num1+num2;
}

console.log(b(c(3,4))) //output will be 14
// here i cannot replace expression c(3,4) with value 7 as it effect the result of the program
// function c has console.log() which is one type of side effect so it is not referentially transparent

```

In the above example function a Is referential transparent as it can be replaced by its value without effecting the result of the program while function c is not referential transparent because here replacing with the value will effect the result of the program as function c has console.log which is one type of side effect.

2. Idempotence
A function is idempotence if for same input it provides same output or does what we expect, Idempotence is different from pure function as it allow side effect. A n example could be get api that with same input provide same output no matter how many times it is called.Another Feature of Idempotence is the idea of calling itself again and again and still the output is the same.Let see other example also:

```js
//here i will try to explain a key concept idempotence with example
function notIdempotenceFn(num) {
  return Math.random(num);
}

notIdempotenceFn(5);
notIdempotenceFn(5);
// the output of above two function will be different however passing the same input so the function is not idempotent

function idempotentFn(num) {
   console.log(num);
}

// The above function is idempotent because every time we call it, it does the same thing for same input so it is idempotent
// it is not pure because it is alter its outside world  as console.log will log in window 

//Another feature of idempotence is the ability to call itself again and again and still the output is the same let see this with 
// an example
function getAbsolute(x) {
  return Math.abs(x)
}
getAbsolute(getAbsolute(getAbsolute(-50))) //50

// I am calling getAbsolute function again and again but it output will be the same.

```
In the above example there are three function notIdempotenceFn,idempotentFn and getAbsolute. In notIdempotenceFn function will result different output in each call so it is not idempotent while the function idempotentFn is idempotent as for same input it
will have same output that is console.log which will print the output to the console. One note idempotentFn function is not pure as it print in console that is altering the outside world. getAbsolute function is an idempotent function as it provide the same result no matter how many times i call it.

3. Imperative vs Declarative
Imperative code means what to do and how to do while declarative code means what to do and what need to be done it will not tell how to do it. Let's understand with an example

```js
//Imperative: what to do and how to do
//Declarative: what to do and what should be done

// Task i want to loop through 1 to 5 and print in the console let see how we can do the code impertively as well as declaratively

//Imerative
for(i=1;i<=5;i++) {
  console.log(i);
}
/*
In the above example i tell what to do console.log and how to do it like first declare i = 1, i should be less then 5, increment one by one
this is Imerative we have to specify each detail
*/

//Declarative
[1,2,3,4,5].forEach(item=>console.log(item));

/*
In the above example i am telling what to do console.log and here i am not telling how to do it , it is take care by forEach , that's
above code is declarative
```

In the above example we have one task to console.log 1 to 5 and how this task can be done imperatively and declaratively. The for loop is imperative because here we define what to do that is console.log and also how to do by defining variable let i=1, its condition i<=5 and increment by 1 i++. The other example is forEach loop which is declarative because here we specify what to do that is console.log and not how to do which is manage by forEach function.
Why i am teaching you about Imperative vs Declarative because functional programming help us to be more declarative by using compose which we will learn later. compose tell our programs what to do instead of how to do it.


4. Immutability

Immutability means not to modify original state by copying it and then applying required changes to the new state and returning the new state. Let's see an example

```js

let mutateObj = {
  first_name:'lorem',
  last_name:'ipsum'
};

let immutateObj = {
  first_name:'irum',
  last_name:'egestas'
};

const mutatingState = (obj) => {
  obj.first_name = 'ullamcorper';
  return obj;
}

const immutatingState = (obj) => {
  const copiedObj = Object.assign({},obj);
  copiedObj.first_name = 'facilisis';
  return copiedObj;
}

mutatingState(mutateObj);
console.log(mutateObj);
/*
above output {
  first_name:'ullamcorper',
  last_name:'ipsum'
};
in the above function we have mutated the orignal state
*/
const newObj = immutatingState(immutateObj);
console.log(immutateObj);
/*
newObj will be 
{
  first_name:'facilisis',
  last_name:'egestas'
};
and  immutateObj will not be changed and it value is
{
  first_name:'irum',
  last_name:'egestas'
};
here the orignal state is not change
*/

```

In above example we have two function mutatingState and immutatingState. The function mutatingState changes the orignal state while immutatingState function creates a copy of the orignal state and return new state. Functional programming recommends immutability as immutability provide stability and predictability to our code. We will come to know the importance of immutability when we understand composing.

5. Partial Application
Partial Application means we are partially applying a function. Suppose a function has 5 arguments. We want its execution to be partially that is for now i will pass 2 arguments and rest of the 3 arguments i will pass later, this is called partial application and it is possible due to closure because when we apply function partially the argument we passed are remembered and are used when we fully execute the function with remaining number of arguments. Let's understand with example.

```js
const multiply = (a,b,c) =>a*b*c;

//Partial Application
const partiallyMultiplyBy5 = multiply.bind(null,5);
partiallyMultiplyBy5(4,10) //200
// in above example  partiallyMultiplyBy5 partially apply multiply function with 5 as first argument.
// when executing the partiallyMultiplyBy5 function we just have to pass remaining paramater as the first argument 5 has been remember
// due to closure.
```

In above example partiallyMultiplyBy5 partially apply multiply function with 5 as first argument. When executing the partiallyMultiplyBy5 function we just have to pass remaining parameter as the first argument 5 has been remember due to closure.

6. Memoization:
Memoization is a special form of caching. Memoization cache return value of the function based on its parameter that is if the parameter does not change then the return value is memoized. let's see with an example.

```js
const notMemoized = (x) => {
  return x*2;
}

notMemoized(2); // 4
notMemoized(2); // 4
// every time we run the function the multiplication code get executed which can be optimized by memoization

const memoizedFn = () => {
  const cache = {};
  return (x) => {
      if( x in cache ) {
        return cache[x];
      }  else {
        return x*2;
      }
  }
}

const multiply = memoizedFn();
multiply(2); // 4
multiply(2); // 4 return from cache as the parameter is same so the return value is memoized

```
In above example we have two function notMemoized and memoizedFn. notMemoized function will execute the function logic of multiplication for each execution also if the parameter is same. While for memoizedFn the function logic of multiplication will only be executed if the result is not cached ,for second time with same parameter the value will return from cache.

7. Compose and Pipe

Composing is an idea that describe that the transformation of the data should be obvious. Let's describe compose in simple terms: if there is a data which is processed by a function and that function return new form of the data, the return data is again processed by another function which return new form of data and this chain continues until we get required output. We can say for compose that it is a design principle which describe the relationship with different components (function), here we arrange components in a assembly line which describe how the data is transformed from one function to another.
Pipe is similar to compose the difference is in execution. compose execute the components from right to left while pipe execute the component from left to write.

```js
// Our task is to multiply a number  with 3 and take absolute of that number
const multiplyWith3  = (x)=>x*3;
const getAbsouleOfNum = (x)=>Math.abs(x)
// here we have two component multiplyWith3 and getAbsouleOfNum 
// if we want to do that without compose we will do like these
let x = 15;
let xAfterMultiply = multiplyWith3(x);
let xAfterAbsoulte = getAbsouleOfNum(xAfterMultiply);

//Let's do in composable way
const compose = (f,g) => data=>f(g(data));

const multiplyBy3andGetAbsolute = compose(multiplyWith3,getAbsouleOfNum);
multiplyBy3andGetAbsolute(-15) //45
// Here we have two components multiplyBy3 and getAbsoulteOfNum, we created a realtion between them that is output of absolute function
// will be input for multiply by 3 function using compose.

//Let's do in Pipe fashion
const pipe = (f,g) => data=>g(f(data));
const multiplyBy3andGetAbsolutePipe = pipe(multiplyWith3,getAbsouleOfNum);
multiplyBy3andGetAbsolutePipe(-15) //45
// Pipe is similar to compose but difference is that the flow is from left to right in pipe while in compose it is from right to left

```

In above example i have tried to explain how we can use compose to transform the data, In the example there is requirement to multiple a number with 3 and then get absolute of the number. These are two different operation so i have created two function multiplyWith3,getAbsouleOfNum which are pure function. Now if we do not use compose then first we have to call multiplyWith3 function store it output in the variable , then use that variable to call getAbsouleOfNum function to get the desired result, this is a one way to do it. Let's now do in compose way, here we have two component(function) multiplyWith3,getAbsouleOfNum we can arrange them in a sequence in a manner that output of one program is input of another so i have created multiplyBy3andGetAbsolute function which will first execute getAbsouleOfNum and then the output of the getAbsouleOfNum function will be provided to multiplyWith3. We can also do this in the pipe way for that i have created multiplyBy3andGetAbsolutePipe here first muliplyBy3 is executed whose output is passed to getAbsouleOfNum.

8. Arity

Arity mean number of argument the function takes. It is preferred to have less number of argument to a function to make it more usable. My preference for number of argument a function should have is 1 or 2. Let's see with an example
const addNumber = (num1,num2) => num1+num2
const getAbsoulte = (num) => Math.abs(num)

// addNumber has arity of two
// getAbsoulte has arity of one
view rawarity_in_javascript.js hosted with ❤ by GitHub
In above example I have created two function addNumber and getAbsoulte. addNumber function has arity of 2 as it has two argument while getAbsoulte has arity of 1 as it has one argument.

9. First-class citizenship or First-class functions

If any programming language has the ability to treat functions as values, to pass them as arguments and to return a function from another function then it is said that  programming language has First Class Functions and the functions are called as First Class Citizens in that programming language.

Functions are very important and powerful in JavaScript. JavaScript has all those abilities or features that are required to be a language having First Class Functions, hence functions are treated as First Class Citizens. Let’s look at all the abilities of functions being a First Class Citizen.

Within the world of programming, means that a given entity (such as a function) supports all the operational properties inherent to other entities; properties such as being able to be assigned to a variable, passed around as a function argument, returned from a function, etc. Basically, first-class citizenship simply means “being able to do what everyone else can do.”
 
#### Conclusion
Functional programming suggests that the data and function(effect) should be separate. The function should have following properties

Single task: A Function should be small and should perform single task
Pure: Function should not have side effect and for same input it should provide same out
Should have return statement.
should be compose-able
Immutable: Function should return a new copy of data and should not change the original state
Should be predictable