Factory functions create objects for us.

Factory functions are great, but can you notice something that we can improve here?

```js
function createElf(name, weapon){
return  {
    name,
    weapon,
    attack() {
        return "attack with " + weapon
    }
}
}
const elf1 = createElf("Ef1", "stones")
```

What if we had 1000 elfs? They require space in our memory to store the same data. In this case we need to store that data in memory for each elf.
And methods such as attack that are pretty generic and they're the same thing. That is going to be copied onto memory in a different location for each one of these else.
But JS has prototypical inheritance. 

With Object.create we do prototypical inheritance. 


## Constructor functions

```js

const Elf = new Function("name","weapon", 
`this.name = name,
this.weapon = weapon
`)

const elf1 = new Elf("Alfa", "stones")

```

And the new keyword automatically returns an elf object for us and it creates this elf constructor.
We've created a new object, and because this function is called, a new execution context is created.
And because of that, because this is a function that we're running, in a new execution context is created, that means we automatically get the this variable attached to it.

Remember, every function that we call gets the this and the arguments parameters.
When we call a function with new keyword, the new keyword will say, Hey, I want you to point -this- to the object that we just created.
Without a new keyword the empty object isn't being created.

```js
function foo(x, y){
    this.x = x
    this.y = y
}
let a = foo(1,2)
console.log(a) // undefined because foo function doesn't return anything
console.log(x) // 1 
// in this example x and y will be global variables onto window object.
```

```js
function Foo(x, y){
    console.log(this);
    this.x = x
    this.y = y
}
let a =  Foo() // If we call function without new, inside of function this refers to global objects, but when we call with new, this refers to that Constructor functions

let b = new Foo(3,4) // Foo {x:3, y:4}
```

Only Functions and Classes have prototype, literal objects don't have prototype.  
```js
const obj = {
    name:"Satenik"
}
console.log(obj.prototype) // undefined
```
