Inside of classes the constructor is something that gets run every time we instantiate or use the new keyword on a class.

Now the beauty with classes is that as object oriented programming suggests, we want to keep all our functionality inside of this box, all the properties, all the state, all the methods, all the actions together.

Underneath the hood in JavaScript, we're still using prototypical inheritance. We're not using classes like classes work in other languages.

Now, as we'll find out, classes aren't necessarily the answer to everything, as we'll see when we get to functional programming.
But also there's an interesting story or a quote behind why JavaScript doesn't have classes.

"If I had done classes in JavaScript back in May 1995, I'd have been told that it was too much like Java or that JavaScript was competing with Java... I was under the marketing orders to make it look like Java, but not make it too big for its britches.

But class keyword is still just prototype inheritance. And some people call this pseudo classical inheritance because it's not real classical inheritance.

## Class
The constructor() method is called automatically by new, so we can initialize the object there.
```js
alert(User === User.prototype.constructor); // true
```
Sometimes people say that class is a “syntactic sugar” (syntax that is designed to make things easier to read, but doesn’t introduce anything new), because we could actually declare the same thing without using the class keyword at all:

 Still, there are important differences.
1.  First, a function created by class is labelled by a special internal property 
[[IsClassConstructor]]: true. So it’s not entirely the same as creating it manually.

2. Class methods are non-enumerable. A class definition sets enumerable flag to false for all methods in the "prototype".

That’s good, because if we for..in over an object, we usually don’t want its class methods.

3. Classes always use strict. All code inside the class construct is automatically in strict mode.


## Extends keyword

Internally, extends keyword works using the good old prototype mechanics. It sets Rabbit.prototype.[[Prototype]] to Animal.prototype. So, if a method is not found in Rabbit.prototype, JavaScript takes it from Animal.prototype.

```js
class Animal {
  constructor(name) {
    this.speed = 0;
    this.name = name;
  }
}

class Rabbit extends Animal {
  hide() {
    alert(`${this.name} hides!`);
  }
}
```

- syntax

```js
function f(phrase) {
  return class {
    sayHi() { alert(phrase); }
  };
}

class User extends f("Hello") {}

new User().sayHi(); // Hello
```

JavaScript itself uses prototypal inheritance for built-in objects. E.g. Date.prototype.[[Prototype]] is Object.prototype. That’s why dates have access to generic object methods.
## Super

Arrow functions have no super.

## Overriding constructor

According to the specification, if a class extends another class and has no constructor, then the following “empty” constructor is generated:

```js
class Rabbit extends Animal {
  // generated for extending classes without own constructors
  constructor(...args) {
    super(...args);
  }
}
```
As we can see, it basically calls the parent constructor passing it all the arguments. That happens if we don’t write a constructor of our own.

In order for us to use the this keyword inside of the constructor, when we extend something, we have to call super first otherwise it will throw an error.

```js
class User {
    constructor (name) {
        this.name = name
    }
}

class Person extends User{
    constructor (name, age) {
        console.log(this) //error
        super(name)
        this.age = age
        //console.log(this) // object
    }
}

let x = new Person("Sat", 23)
console.log(Person.prototype.isPrototypeOf(x)); //true
console.log(Person.isPrototypeOf(x)); // false
console.log(Function.prototype.isPrototypeOf(Person)); // true
console.log(Function.isPrototypeOf(Person)); // false
console.log(User.prototype.isPrototypeOf(Person.prototype)); // true
console.log(User.isPrototypeOf(Person.prototype)); //false
console.log(User.isPrototypeOf(Person)); // true
console.log(Person.__proto__ === User); // true
console.log(Person.prototype.__proto__ === User.prototype); // true
console.log(Person.__proto__ === User.prototype); // false
```
Because proto refers to prototype of that class or constructor function which has created that object. 

Constructors in inheriting classes must call super(...), and (!) do it before using this.

## derived
In JavaScript, there’s a distinction between a constructor function of an inheriting class (so-called “derived constructor”) and other functions. A derived constructor has a special internal property [[ConstructorKind]]:"derived". That’s a special internal label.

That label affects its behavior with new.

- When a regular function is executed with new, it creates an empty object and assigns it to this.
- But when a derived constructor runs, it doesn’t do this. It expects the parent constructor to do this job.

So a derived constructor must call super in order to execute its parent (base) constructor, otherwise the object for this won’t be created. And we’ll get an error.


## Advanced Overriding class fields: a tricky note

```js
class Animal {
  name = 'animal';

  constructor() {
    alert(this.name); // (*)
  }
}

class Rabbit extends Animal {
  name = 'rabbit';
}

new Animal(); // animal
new Rabbit(); // animal
```

Here, class Rabbit extends Animal and overrides the name field with its own value.

There’s no own constructor in Rabbit, so Animal constructor is called.

What’s interesting is that in both cases: new Animal() and new Rabbit(), the alert in the line (*) shows animal.

In other words, the parent constructor always uses its own field value, not the overridden one.


```js
class Animal {
  showName() {  // instead of this.name = 'animal'
    alert('animal');
  }

  constructor() {
    this.showName(); // instead of alert(this.name);
  }
}

class Rabbit extends Animal {
  showName() {
    alert('rabbit');
  }
}

new Animal(); // animal
new Rabbit(); // rabbit
```

- Please note: now the output is different.

And that’s what we naturally expect. When the parent constructor is called in the derived class, it uses the overridden method.

…But for class fields it’s not so. As said, the parent constructor always uses the parent field.

Why is there a difference?

Well, the reason is the field initialization order. The class field is initialized:

- Before constructor for the base class (that doesn’t extend anything),
- Immediately after super() for the derived class.
In our case, Rabbit is the derived class. There’s no constructor() in it. As said previously, that’s the same as if there was an empty constructor with only super(...args).

So, new Rabbit() calls super(), thus executing the parent constructor, and (per the rule for derived classes) only after that its class fields are initialized. At the time of the parent constructor execution, there are no Rabbit class fields yet, that’s why Animal fields are used.

This subtle difference between fields and methods is specific to JavaScript.

Luckily, this behavior only reveals itself if an overridden field is used in the parent constructor. Then it may be difficult to understand what’s going on, so we’re explaining it here.

If it becomes a problem, one can fix it by using methods or getters/setters instead of fields.


## class static methods

```js
class User {
  static staticMethod() {
    alert(this === User);
  }
}

User.staticMethod(); // true

class User { }

User.staticMethod = function() {
  alert(this === User);
};

User.staticMethod(); // true
```
The value of this in User.staticMethod() call is the class constructor User itself (the “object before dot” rule).
Usually, static methods are used to implement functions that belong to the class as a whole, but not to any particular object of it.




  // enumerable for class fields 
  ```js
  class Person {
    constructor(name) {
      this.name = name;
    }
    age = 24;
    // only for this kind of methods enumerable is true
    zoo() {
      return 34;
    }
  }
  let a = new Person("Anna");
  
  // in this case for foo method enumerable is true
  Person.prototype.foo = function (params) {
    return 12;
  };
  
  console.log(a.zoo());
  console.log(a.__proto__);
  
  for (const key in a) {
    console.log(key);
  }

  ```
  