## Naming

Names are everywhere in software. We name our variables, functions, arguments, classes, and packages. We name our source files and the directories that contain them. We name our JAR, WAR, and EAR files. We are constantly naming.

To help ensure we do this well, we use rules. These rules provide us with a foundation for clean code and support consistency no matter who is coding. Following these rules and carefully selecting a name may initially take extra effort, however, in the end it saves time and frustration.

1. Class and Object Names
- Use noun phrase names
- Don’t use verbs

2. Method Names
- Use verb phrase names

3. Solution Domains

Use programming terms such as:
- Computer Science terms
- Algorithm names
- Design Pattern names

4. Problem Domains

- Use simple terms that clearly identify the problem
- Avoid programmer language

## Rules of Naming

1. Reveal Intention. 

- The name of a variable, function, or class should tell you three things: why it exists, what it does, and how it is used. If a name requires a comment, then the name does not reveal its intent.

2. Don’t be Cute. 
- Choose Clarity over Humor. Say what you mean. Mean what you say.

3. Searchable Names. 
- Names should be easy to locate across a body of text. If a name occurs in multiple places, it is imperative to give it a search-friendly name. Single-letter names should ONLY be used as local variables inside short methods.

4. Avoid Encoding. 
- Avoid Hungarian notation, member prefixes, etc. 

5. One Word, One Meaning. 
- Be consistent throughout your code by using one word per abstract concept. To eliminate confusion, use words that only have one meaning.

6. Meaningful Distinctions. 
- When attempting to differentiate code, make distinctions that are meaningful without changing the searchability or intention of the code. For example, don’t change the spelling because the name is already taken.

7. Use Pronounceable Names. 
- It is easier to remember and discuss names that you can pronounce. For example: genymdhms versus generationTimeStamp.