## Function Declarations in Blocks (FiB)

We've seen now that declarations using `let` or `const` are block-scoped, and `var` declarations are function-scoped. So what about `function` declarations that appear directly inside blocks? As a feature, this is called "FiB."

We typically think of `function` declarations like they're the equivalent of a `var` declaration. So are they function-scoped like `var` is?

No and yes. I know... that's confusing. Let's dig in:

```js
if (false) {
    function ask() {
        console.log("Does this run?");
    }
}
ask();
```

What do you expect for this program to do? Three reasonable outcomes:

1. The `ask()` call might fail with a `ReferenceError` exception, because the `ask` identifier is block-scoped to the `if` block scope and thus isn't available in the outer/global scope.

2. The `ask()` call might fail with a `TypeError` exception, because the `ask` identifier exists, but it's `undefined` (since the `if` statement doesn't run) and thus not a callable function.

3. The `ask()` call might run correctly, printing out the "Does it run?" message.

Here's the confusing part: depending on which JS environment you try that code snippet in, you may get different results! This is one of those few crazy areas where existing legacy behavior betrays a predictable outcome.

The JS specification says that `function` declarations inside of blocks are block-scoped, so the answer should be (1). However, most browser-based JS engines (including v8, which comes from Chrome but is also used in Node) will behave as (2), meaning the identifier is scoped outside the `if` block but the function value is not automatically initialized, so it remains `undefined`.

Why are browser JS engines allowed to behave contrary to the specification? Because these engines already had certain behaviors around FiB before ES6 introduced block scoping, and there was concern that changing to adhere to the specification might break some existing website JS code. As such, an exception was made in Appendix B of the JS specification, which allows certain deviations for browser JS engines (only!).

| NOTE: |
| :--- |
| You wouldn't typically categorize Node as a browser JS environment, since it usually runs on a server. But Node's v8 engine is shared with Chrome (and Edge) browsers. Since v8 is first a browser JS engine, it adopts this Appendix B exception, which then means that the browser exceptions are extended to Node. |

One of the most common use cases for placing a `function` declaration in a block is to conditionally define a function one way or another (like with an `if..else` statement) depending on some environment state. For example:

```js
if (typeof Array.isArray != "undefined") {
    function isArray(a) {
        return Array.isArray(a);
    }
}
else {
    function isArray(a) {
        return Object.prototype.toString.call(a)
            == "[object Array]";
    }
}
```

It's tempting to structure code this way for performance reasons, since the `typeof Array.isArray` check is only performed once, as opposed to defining just one `isArray(..)` and putting the `if` statement inside it—the check would then run unnecessarily on every call.

| WARNING: |
| :--- |
| In addition to the risks of FiB deviations, another problem with conditional-definition of functions is it's harder to debug such a program. If you end up with a bug in the `isArray(..)` function, you first have to figure out *which* `isArray(..)` implementation is actually running! Sometimes, the bug is that the wrong one was applied because the conditional check was incorrect! If you define multiple versions of a function, that program is always harder to reason about and maintain. |

In addition to the previous snippets, several other FiB corner cases are lurking; such behaviors in various browsers and non-browser JS environments (JS engines that aren't browser based) will likely vary. For example:

```js
if (true) {
    function ask() {
        console.log("Am I called?");
    }
}

if (true) {
    function ask() {
        console.log("Or what about me?");
    }
}

for (let i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
    function ask() {
        console.log("Or is it one of these?");
    }
}

ask();

function ask() {
    console.log("Wait, maybe, it's this one?");
}
```

Recall that function hoisting as described in "When Can I Use a Variable?" (in Chapter 5) might suggest that the final `ask()` in this snippet, with "Wait, maybe..." as its message, would hoist above the call to `ask()`. Since it's the last function declaration of that name, it should "win," right? Unfortunately, no.

It's not my intention to document all these weird corner cases, nor to try to explain why each of them behaves a certain way. That information is, in my opinion, arcane legacy trivia.

My real concern with FiB is, what advice can I give to ensure your code behaves predictably in all circumstances?

As far as I'm concerned, the only practical answer to avoiding the vagaries of FiB is to simply avoid FiB entirely. In other words, never place a `function` declaration directly inside any block. Always place `function` declarations anywhere in the top-level scope of a function (or in the global scope).

So for the earlier `if..else` example, my suggestion is to avoid conditionally defining functions if at all possible. Yes, it may be slightly less performant, but this is the better overall approach:

```js
function isArray(a) {
    if (typeof Array.isArray != "undefined") {
        return Array.isArray(a);
    }
    else {
        return Object.prototype.toString.call(a)
            == "[object Array]";
    }
}
```

If that performance hit becomes a critical path issue for your application, I suggest you consider this approach:

```js
var isArray = function isArray(a) {
    return Array.isArray(a);
};

// override the definition, if you must
if (typeof Array.isArray == "undefined") {
    isArray = function isArray(a) {
        return Object.prototype.toString.call(a)
            == "[object Array]";
    };
}
```

It's important to notice that here I'm placing a `function` **expression**, not a declaration, inside the `if` statement. That's perfectly fine and valid, for `function` expressions to appear inside blocks. Our discussion about FiB is about avoiding `function` **declarations** in blocks.

Even if you test your program and it works correctly, the small benefit you may derive from using FiB style in your code is far outweighed by the potential risks in the future for confusion by other developers, or variances in how your code runs in other JS environments.

FiB is not worth it, and should be avoided.